

--- INICIO PÁGINA 1 ---

METAL WEAVE GAMES Ly ANDREAS WALTERS



--- INICIO PÁGINA 2 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 3 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 4 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 5 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 6 ---

CREDITS

CREATIVE DIRECTOR
Andreas Walters

AUTHORS
Alana Currie John D. Kennedy

Ben Woerner Karl Larsson

Brie Sheldon Laura Montgomery-Hurrell
Devon Oratz Mikaela Barree

Eloy Lasanta Richard Bellingham
Jacob Wood Ryan Schoon

Jesse Butler Sarah Richardson

Joel Sparks Vickey Beaver

LEAD EDITOR
Gareth Hodges

EDITOR
Jeremy Land

CORE ART

Conceptopolis
www.conceptopolis.com

SUPPLEMENTAL ARTISTS

Eren Arik Domenico Neziti
www.ErenArik.com www.Nezart.DeviantArt.com

Denis Loedner Maciej Kuczynski
www.ArtStation.com/artist/DenisTheMenace www.Pixel Joint.com/p/925.htm
PUBLISHED BY
Metal Weave Games

www.MetalWeaveGames.com

COPYRIGHT
O 2013 Metal Weave Games
BABY BESTIARY and its logo are trademarks of Metal Weave Games in the U.S.A. and other countries.
This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written
permission of Metal Weave Games. This product is a work of fiction.
Visit us at www.MetalWeaveGames.com

Printed in Taiwan by KrakenPrint


--- INICIO PÁGINA 7 ---

CONTENTS

3 Creator's Note

4 Kickstarter Backer Shoutout 34
6 You, The Beastmaster 36
7 Finding Your Baby Beast 38
7 Baby Intelligence 40
7 Rearing A Baby Beast 42
8 Baby Beasts in the City 44
8 Training Your Beast 46
9 Beasts as Mounts 48
9 Stages of Development 50
10  Protecting Your Baby Beast 52
11  Returning a Beast to the Wild 54
12  Basilisk Lizardling 56
14 — Blink Puppy 58
16  Bulette Billy 60
18  Centaur Foal 62
20 Cerberus Puppy 64
22  Chimera Cub 66
24  Cockatrice Chick 68
26  Couatl Neonate 70
28 Dragon Wyrmling 72
30  Elementlets 74

Creator's Note

Throughout my entire life, 1 have always had a unique connection
to animals. 1 could probably attribute that to having grown
up with animals of various sorts and always having an animal
companion, although 1 still want my red-tailed (dire) hawk.

The inspiration for the Baby Bestiary actually came out of a
discussion where someone (our editor, Jeremy) had realized that

the rust monster was classified as aberration rather than a magical

beast. The conversation then turned to how nonthreatening a
magical rust kitten would be compared to a baby aberrant rust

monster. This spurred my imagination on the Baby Bestiary, which

shows that every beast has an adorable stage to them. And as you
can see, they're pretty cute.

This book is intended to be system- and setting-neutral, meaning

there will be no ability scores, DCs, stat blocks, or spells listed
within this book (we have another one for that). Rather, you will
find a rich narrative about what you could expect from a baby
beast, focusing on feeding, development, training, re-releasing,
and issues that could emerge whilst having a baby beast in the
company of your adventuring party (or in your home).

Also, without the help of all our Kickstarter backers, this project
would never have come to life as you see it now. Without your
help, this would still be a dream concept and would never have
seen the light of day as a book as beautiful as this one is.

Aside from my smaller supplements, this is my first major book
production, and l am quite proud of it in every aspect. 1 hope that
it lives up to your expectations of both content and quality, as 1
wish to improve from one book to the next.

Thank you,

Andreas Walters

Eyelings, Dodomeki
Gelatinous Cubelet
Gnoll Cub

Griffin Hatchling
Hippocampus Ery
Kirin Foal

Kitsune Pup
Kobold Kid
Leviathan, Little
Manticore Cub
Mimicling
Minotaur Calf
Nightmare Colt
Owlbear Cubs
Phase Kitten
Phoenix Hatchling
Rakshasa Kitten
Rust Weevil
Sphinx Kitten
Titan Tyke

Treant Sapling
Wyvern Elver



--- INICIO PÁGINA 8 ---

KICKSTARTER BACKER SHOUTOUT

[HJ]-Darmys Asagiri

A. Murchison

Aard Rinn

Aaron (and Bill The Bear)
HeritAge-Smith

Aaron Franz

Aaron Tucker

Adam ex Cecilia Óstergren

Adam Bender

Adam Everman

Adam Ness

Adam Thompson

Adam Toulmin

Adma Drukk]l

Alairan

Alan Millard

Alberto Mendoza

Aldo Ibarra of Shadowdale

Alex “MonsterChef”
Neilson

Alex Lapin

Alexander “Guddha”
Gudenau

Alexander Wreschnig

Alicia Cameron

Alicia P.

Alisha Walton

Alisia Rueda

Allison Daugherty

Alyssa Evensen

Amanda Hitchcock

Amanda Power

AmazonV

Amy and Don Edgecomb

Anders Howard

Andreas Lieberoth

Andrew Clough

Andrew Glynn

Andrew Janeba

Andrew Phillips

Andrew Yang

Andy “awmyhr” MyHR

Andy Antolick

Anne « Sigfried Trent

Anny Tritchler

Anonymous

Ariel Paulino

Arlene Medder

Artem Safarov

Ashley Bogert

Astro Lark

Atkana

Aurora Thornhill

Austin and Erin

Barbara Soto

Barry Arnst

Barry sullivan

Becky Schoen

Beff, Alex, and Justin :D

Ben and Jess Feehan

Benjamin “Cookie”
Saxton-Ruiz

4.

Benjamin Darby Klein
Benjamin Ragheb
Benjamin S.J. Oakley
Beth Rimmels

Bill Bateman
Blossom Vydrina
Brain23

Brandon Kern
Brandon Rankin
Brendan Hencher
Brent D. Sims

Brian Allred

Brian € Cynthia Brodeur
Brian Day

C Andrews

C. Hipke

Calum Buchanan
Cam Lobay

Capn Frank

Carla De La Rosa
Carol Benovic

César “Kimble” Luz
Charlotte Saal
Chelsea Knauf

Chris « Anna Skuller
Chris Battey

Chris Bekofske

Chris Dalton

Chris Isberg

Chris Larkin

Chris Lowell

Chris Meyer

Chris Olsen

Chris Pickler

Chris Richmond
Chrisinda Edmonds
Christi Maiolo
Christina Rowe
Christopher Norcross
Christopher S. Sanders
Christopher Trapp
Christopher Wilson
Claire Lawson

Clay €« Ben Blankenship
Clinton Breeden
Coach « Ayo

Cody Hann

Cole Busse

Colleen R

Conor Mooney
Cordelia S. Wolf
Corinna L. Clanton
Courtney Westmoreland
Crime Fighter Prime
Cristiane Weber
Cthulhu Kid
CtrlAltFaceroll

Curt Reinert

COW “Fuzzy” Lausten
Damien Moore

Dan Hope

Danger Ross

Daniel

Daniel Fidelman

Daniel Jensen

Daniel Kubler

Daniel Thomas Lemich

Danielle Neary

Danny Farias

Dar (the barbarian) DeHaai

Darwin Bromley

Daryl Putman

Dave Tomczyk

Davena Oaks

David A. Nolan

David G. Brewington II

David Rihan

David Ruskin

David Saunders

David Ting

Dawnwind k'Shaya

Declan O'Connell

Demiurgis

Derek Grimm

Derek Thomas

Devin Tant

Devon Oratz and Mikacla
Barree
- End Transmission
Games

Diandra Anne Lasrado

Dominic Quach

Don Pahl

Don, Beth € Meghan Ferris

Dr. Matt “Professor” Lust
and Josie Lust

Draco18s

Dragon Lady Barbour

DreadPirateaAdam!!

Drength

Duncan Young

Dustin Archer

E Grindberg

E.B. “EbNinja” Hunter

Ed Friendly

Ed Kowalezewski

Eden Brandeis

Edward Markland

Eli Omernick

Eliram Barak

Elizabeth Meyers

Elizabeth Sullivan

Elliot E.

ELRS

Emily Brumfield « Susann
Hessen

Eric Baker

Eric Canapini

Eric Moffitt

Ericaceae

Erin G Bonelle

Esteváo Manoel Alves
Corréa Filho (Gereth-The
Painting Frog)

Everett Owen

Eyal Teler

Ezequiel Zarate

Fahad Nacem

Ferret

Flash Hammer Creative
Studios (FHCS)

Florence Caron Payette

For my honey, Alyssa ;*

Francesca é< Cristiano

Fred Zeleny

Gabriel bulik

Galit A.

Garcia

Gareth Hodges Emily De
Rango

Gayle Schoen

Genevieve Matranga

Ginger Bryngelson

Grace Spengler

Graham Lewis

Graham Smallwood

Grant Chen

Greg Skinner

Greg Storey

Greta Sayle

Griffin D. Morgan

Guilherme Casas Goncalves

Guo Heng the Awesome,
of Uranus

Guy Thompson

H+M <3

Haematite

Calendar: Kitty”

Hannah Craig

Hayley Schenk, the Loving
Mate to a Toxic Life

Heather V. Kreiter

Henty and Ranna

Hermanni Raatevaara

Hiro Damighty Ewok

Hiroaki Kamidate

Holly Cook

Holly Hunt

lan McGarty

Igor Moreno

Tke Scott Haldan

Tlka Helo

Ivan and
the Hunters Books Team

Ivy Gerbis

Levine

Lowe

. Griff Griffin

. Harrison Barber

. Patrick Walker

ack Brown

ack Daw

lack Hepburn Raine

ack Norris

lacob Pawson

lacob Ryan Pyle

acob Thomas
acqueline Kate Salsman
acqueline Marcus

ade Kovac

ames “D-Boy” Panto
ames Ballard

ames Buckhorn of

CarrollFilms
ames Moreland
ames Penn Breedlove
ames Quigg
ames Shepherd
amie Song
ason e Tara
ason Link
ason Liswood
ason Marks
ason Pitre
ason Warlock
C Huber
D Starflower
eff Kearns
eff Kosovich
eff Moore
eff Riegle,

Keeper of WereBeagles
eff Rosenberg
effrey Mclean
en A. Ross
en Webster
ennifer Cole
ennifer Kratovil
ennifer Whyte
eremiah Erye
Jeremy Crigger

Jeremy Kincaid
Jerry Meyer Jr.

Jess Chatham

Jesse £« Naomi

esse Ephraim

esse Henning

essie T

im Austerman

im DelRosso

im McKeon

immy Santito
Joanna Stacbler-Kimmel
oe Thater

'ohn D. Kennedy
'ohn Eghoian

ohn GT

'ohn Hergenroeder
'ohn Komala

ohn Laffan

'ohn Moore

'ohn Munro

'ohn Pritchett

'ohn W. C. McNabb
o-Jo Taylor

on Spengler
'on.Moore

onathan Elliott Blum



--- INICIO PÁGINA 9 ---

lonathan L. Warner
lonathan Shaver
lonathan Turpie
lonny Omer

lordan Smith Loves Eryn
Raimondo

orgen Tjerno
losema “Yrdin” Romeo
loseph B. Prozinski
loseph Civin

loseph D. Payne
oseph Oliveira

losh Eaves

losh Kane

losh Shrader

loshua R. Hollowell
loshua Ramsey
osiah Bradbury
osiah Mann

ulius Múller
uliusderBastler

ye “Yuki Hyou” Karl-Perry
K. Pickett
Kaiaa
Kalle Tuovila
KalTorak18
Kamekie
Karl S. Lake
Kary Realm

Master K Williams
Kasper Hermansen
Kate R. Wolsey
Kate Underwood
Katelyn Pi Cushing
Katie Harwood
Katrina
Kay Xiggie Liu
Keith Preston
Kendall Jung
Kendel Rogers
Kendra Wong
Kenneth Turner
Kerwin Beechey
Kettinger Bernát
Kevin Bryant
Kevin Huang
Kevin J.
Kevin J. Lee
Kevin Merriman
Kevin Moore
Khinaisidog
Kirstyn Humniski
Kit Walker
kla.
Klaus Ole Kristiansen
Kody Tench
Kokikio
Konner Smith
Korbl Klimecki
Kris Pivin
Kristoffer Brandberg
Kunkle
Kurt Anderson
Kylan Coats
Kyle Bentley
Kyle Main
Lachlan Webb

Lanir
Laura Antoniou
Lavinia the niecelet
Leclercq Guillaume
Lee W Murdock
Lenaen Linneal
Leo Lima
Leron Culbreath
Lim Ye Ping
Lior Nailo Samuel
Lindsay Walter
Lisa Disterheft
Lobster Mobster
Lord Frisco
Lucho Hildebrandt
Lucian Levine

$ Nicole Erickson
Luke Sigler
Maiken Klúnder
Mairi Hunter €: Jacinda

Moore
Mama Jayme Mercer
Marc Gardner
Marc Plourde
Marcin MoÁocicki
Marianne Salyer
Marjorie Lamkin
Mark Ferguson
Mark Hurst
Mark Laird
Mark McGranaghan
Mark Sponholtz
Masaki Miyashita
Matt Burton
Matt DeKrey
Matt Steen
Matthew “] Wall” Wallace
Matthew Emerick
Matthew McFarland
Matthew Power
Matthew Siew
May Genivieve Kostroski
McKenna Lee Unobskey
Megan and Mikhail
Megan Doyle Carmody

Megan McFerren-Drozdalski

Megan Stoll
Meghan Lloyd
Merlijn Eskens — Syraleaf
Michael
Michael
Michael “Owlbear Cowboy”
Kidd
Michael C. Maroon
Michael Cantor
Michael De Rosa
Michael ] Kruckvich
Michael John Farrugia
8: Andrew James Farrugia
Michael Maneval
Michael Robins
Michael Sinclair
Michael Stevens
Michael Surbrook
Michael V. Del Giudice
Michelle Hack]
Mike Nicole Everard

Mike Emrick
Minao Takinohara
Mitchell Gallinger
Morgan Westbrook
Morgen Gregory
Moritz Salinger
Morten Frederiksen
ladav Ben Dov
ancy Feldman
laomi Johnson
atalie Lezmy
natb

athan Hoskins
athan Olmstead
athan Turner

eil D. Kulevich
cil Miller

ick Trish

ick Nundahl

ick Peterson
icolás y Gianni
icole Evensen
ikki Drewry
Nikola Cadieux
Nikolai Hall
Nirven

nmilasich

Norah Bryant
Nothing special
Nova Clarke
Octavio Arango
Orlean

Orson Cream
Oscar Ulloa

P Byhmer

P. A. Mayes

Pamela Digaetano
Patrick Martin Frosz Nielsen
Paul Baldowski
Petri Leinonen
Petter Wáss

Philippe Lambert
Qian Hui KWA
Quasi

Rachael McCormick
Randy Hightower
Rebekah Stohldrier
Reinhard Mitschang
Reist

Revari

Rhel

Rhonda Bender
Rian N. Turner
Richard “tyrshtml” Curtis
Richard Anderson
Richard Gant
Richard Stephens
Richard Tolley

Rita « Sarah

River and Peregrine Pearson
Roaringsheep

Rob Barrett

Rob H.

Rob Wood

Robb Koehler
Robert ] Duncan IV
Robert Schymiczek

Robin Armstrong
Robin Burzan
Robin Wemmenlóv

Rockheads Comics « Games

Ronald Anthony Buening II

Roz Langley

Rúdiger

Rukesh Patel

Russ Ventimeglia

Russell Akred

Ryan A. Pearson

Ryan Allan

Ryan Carnes

Ryan Porava

Ryan R

S8 D Ward

S.C. Hartford

Sally Burk

Sam (Canada) Mitson

Sam Bz.

Sam Hing

Sam Mangham

Samuel Driskill

Sanchini Family

Sarah B.

Sarah Newhouse

Sarah Scholz

Scott R. Krol

Scott Russell

Sean Stockton

Seth Alcorn

Shane Murphy

Shane Nowak

Shanna M. Plewa

Shannon

Shannon B.

Shannon E.

Shard73

Shauna Forrister

Shea E. Brogdon

Sheridaj

Shield Bonnichsen

Shoggothic

Silver

Sparkle Magic

Spencer Cotter

Spuds

Stacie English

Stefanie Kreutzer

StellarOctopus

Stephanie Franklin

Stephen Anthony Uy

Stephen Williams

Steve Lord

“Steve McBurnett $e
Jennifer Kratovil”

Steve Wallace

Steven K. Watkins

Steven Lund

Steven Maloney

Steven Pattison

Stevie Coelho

Stuart and Stacey Geary

Susan Oleinik

Svend Andersen

Sylvia Hiatt Maixner

T. Adam

Tamar Ben-Baruch
Tamir € Dana Katz-
Buchshtav
Tannyx
Tanya Itkin
Tara Lynn Bruce
TaRena Eric Enloe
Tealah Hill
Terhi Pieská
Terry L Gilbert Jr
The Healing Touch
The Pfautz Family
The Scarlet Oak, LLC
The Wonderous KD
Nguyen, Magician
Extraordinaire
Tim Campbell
Timothy Boye
Timothy E Barth
Tobias “Owlbear” Drewry
Tobias Niemitz
Tobias Peters
Todd B. Finney
Todd Mico
“Tomas Denemark
Thomas J. Talamini
Tracy and Nicole Vierra
Tracy Wan
Troy “Wrongtown” Hall
Tule Woodson
Tun Kai Poh
Urist McDorf
V.A. van der Velde
Vic Smith
Victoria E.S. Pullen
Victoria Klemm
Vitamancer
Wade Geer
Wesrolter
Whitt.
Wil McKinnee
Wilhelm Fitzpatrick
Will Buckmaster
- NerdWorthy Games
William Bennett-Parker
William Ke
William Moomaw
Wilson Maruyama
Santos de Paula
Wi Brian Troutt
Xanthe Trewe
Yann Abaziou
Yasmeen(Q,
YarkspiriFantasyArt.com
Yehuda Halfon
Yuusou Amazing
Zach Smith
Zachary McLemore
Zachary Mott
Zark the Damned
100 7719?


--- INICIO PÁGINA 10 ---

You, The Beastmaster

Looking back on a long career in the trade of
nurturing and training animals, 1 cannot define the
exact moment l considered myself a master of beasts.
Others 1 have spoken with tell me they look back with
similar experience. Some were born into families with
a tradition of monster training, while others found
the occupation by accident or necessity. The thingis,
if you aren't talented in monster training your career
will be short so, by definition, there are no apprentice
beastmasters. Everyone finds their way into the trade
slowly, often without planning to dedicate their life to it.

Unexpected exposure to monsters of the non-
ravaging kind is a common start for those who
become beastmasters. Whether it's gnoll whelps
stealing apples in your orchards or minotaur calves
in your garden maze, dealing with pests has been
the start of many careers. Ironically, many began
by wanting to destroy them, but after killing the
threatening adults, they found it harder to kill their
defenseless offspring and adopted them instead.

It matters not how you became drawn to beasts and
monsters; what matters is how it changes you. When
you master beasts, you also master yourself. You
teach yourself control and patience, and through you,
the beast learns the same. Their animalistic nature
gives way to human nature and the benefits that
entails. Don't be fooled—it is not real intelligence,

though it may seem like it, but rather a replacing of
animal instincts with human instincts. While the
most loyal squire is able to explain their devotion to
their lord, the lord's mount is not. But with logic also
comes the possibility of subversion, which is why
most lords trust their mount more than their squire.
To the accomplished beastmaster, the relationships
with monsters they keep soon outshine any human
relation they could have.

Personally, I believe one becomes a beastmaster
when mastering a beast ceases to be a means to an
end and instead becomes the end itself. Some train
horses so they or others may ride them. Others do
the same with griffons, or even dragons. But they are
never master of the beast, merely its subjugator. You
truly become a master when the presence of the beast
is not something you tolerate, but require; when each
monster trained is not just another job completed,
but a gratifying personal experience. When you reach
that level, you will start looking for greater challenges
and more unusual beasts worthy of your attention.

Beware, though! There is a danger of falling prey
to the lure of the animal mind. History is full of
beastmasters abandoning their role and instead
letting the beast master them, either by giving in to
their animal nature and going savage, or by letting
their charge get the best of them in one final, swift
episode of bloodshed.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 11 ---

Finding Your Baby Beast

If yow're looking for a new baby beast to rear, the best
(and admittedly most dangerous) place to search is in
and near its parents” lair. Depending on your choice
of creature, you may face a few specific challenges:
Some beasts are reclusive, making their lairs difficult
to locate, while others are ferocious and willing to
defend their homes to the death (quite possibly your
death).

It's important to know the breeding habits and cycle
of the creature you're looking for. If you're hunting
during mating season, as opposed to birthing or
hatching season, you're not likely to find a new baby
beast. You also need to understand what the creature
eats, howit survives hatching (if it comes from an
egg), and other incidental facts which will help you be
a successful parent.

If yow're not the adventurous sort, you can hire
some brave soul to fetch a specimen for you, or you
can purchase one from a breeder. Each of these
methods has its own risks, naturally, but at least they
don't put you in harm's way.

Hiring a professional poacher means not knowing
what you're going to get. Yes, you may tell them you
want a blink dog pup, but unless you're very detailed
in your description of blink dogs, you may wind up
getting a common canine instead. It would certainly
be within your rights to refuse payment to someone
who doesn't bring you the right beast, but do you
really want to argue with a person who's willing to put
their life on the line for a bit of coin?

If you can find a breeder for your chosen creature
type, you may be able to select the precise specimen
you desire. Not all beasts are legally traded, though,
so if you're looking for something exotic, you may
need to find a black market distributor. In either case,
there's a risk that you'1l wind up with a baby beast
who has been mistreated or beaten, which makes your
job as a trainer that much more difficult

Baby Intelligence

Although l use the term “beast” to describe the
creatures herein, they don't necessarily have animal
intelligence. While some of the creatures are purely
instinctual (owlbears, anyone?), others have above-
average intelligence for monstrous creatures. Some
creatures mentioned in this book, such as the kirin,
gnolls, dragons, and couatls, have intellects rivaling,
and in some cases surpassing, that of the civilized

races. These creatures require special handling if you
are to successfully raise and train them.

Some of the intelligent beasts detailed in this book
are capable of language, making them especially
interesting cases. Whether you choose to teach the
creature the language of its parents is up to you, but
having the ability to speak to them in a tongue that
is instinctively familiar to them would certainly help.
Relationships with such creatures tend to be more
give-and-take than they are with nonverbal beasts;
when you're trying to train a dragon who is capable of
negotiating, you must do more than feed it to keep it
happy.

Regardless of its intelligence, all beasts learn and
acquire new skills throughout their lives. Teaching
them the fundamentals—such as hunting, hiding,
and hygiene—is important when they are young.
Even if you plan to raise the beast as a trapper,
guardian, or puzzle solver (in the case of sphinxes
and minotaurs), you must not neglect to teach them
the basics. Some beasts learn these things faster than
others, but in all cases, advanced skills will come with
time, so remember to be patient.

Rearing A Baby Beast

You've acquired your baby beast, and now it's time to
raise it to be the helpful little minion you've always
wanted. The first steps you take after bringing a baby
into your custody are some of the most important
you'll ever undertake, so don't take them lightly. P've
seen many people try to raise a newborn creature only
to fail miserably, sometimes catastrophically.

The first thing I recommend you do before trying to
raise your beast is to study and learn as much as you
can about its kind. One of the biggest novice mistakes
is to assume that all creatures are alike, when nothing
could be further from the truth. Each baby has its
own unique personality, and more importantly, each
creature type responds differently to your actions.
You may be able to raise some of the more bestial
creatures by simply feeding them regularly and letting
them wander around your garden, but most of the
monsters outlined in this book are more complex.
Before you bring your new pet home from market (or
its lair, or wherever you happen to find it), make sure
you understand what amenities its new home is going
to need.

I recommend you continue to learn everything you
can about the beast throughout its childhood and


--- INICIO PÁGINA 12 ---

into adulthood. It's important to know what kind of
habitat makes it feel most at home, what kind of food
it prefers to eat, and how it responds to discipline.
Many beasts have supernatural powers which also
require special consideration. You may need to wear
protective clothing or magic items to guard yourself
against accidental uses of its natural and unnatural
attacks.

Once you know how to properly care for your beast,
you'll need to put your knowledge into practice. Begin
by establishing your role as its master (or parental
figure if it's too smart to let you lord over it) so it
learns to trust and obey you. Teach it basic living
and coping skills, then progress to more advanced
techniques as it matures. Keep in mind that not all
creatures have the same lifespan; one beast may grow
to maturity in a matter of years while others may take
decades. The important thing is that you commit to
being a beastmaster, lest you wind up with a creature
who runs amok and leaves your home in shambles.

Baby Beasts in the City

Even if you live atop a tower in the woods and

don't get out much, chances are you will at some
point need to bring your baby beast to the city. If
you're a permanent urban resident, you may already
be familiar with some of this material, but pay

close attention anyway, because this is important
information.

Most of the creatures in this book are not
considered domestic house pets, and nearly every
city restricts their presence in some way or another.
Creatures who grow to large sizes or have harmful
supernatural abilities typically require permits, if
they're even allowed within city limits at all. Rust
monsters in particular tend to be hazardous to a city's
health and are rarely allowed on urban streets even
with a leash.

If your chosen beast requires a permit, you should
carry it with you any time you travel with your pet
inside city limits. You alone are responsible for
the creature's actions, so if it eats an adventurer's
horse or turns a shopkeeper to stone, you need to
be prepared to pay for damages (and stone-to-flesh
spells). I don't recommend taking your beast onto city
streets until it's old enough to understand and obey
your commands, otherwise it may wind up costing
you a hefty sum in fines.

In certain cases, you may need to demonstrate
your ability to contain your beast and prevent it
from rampaging on city streets. To earn a permit for
such creatures, you need to prove your home has the
proper safeguards in place to prevent it from getting
loose. This may mean having dimensional anchors
to prevent your puppies from blinking through your
fence, stone walls to keep your rust monsters in,
and so forth. Be prepared for routine visits from law
enforcement to make sure all of your protective wards
are up to their standards.

Gnolls, kobolds, and other creatures are considered
lesser humanoids under some city laws, and they
may be subjected to slavery. If you're rearing such a
creature in one of these cities and you wish to keep
your baby, be prepared to disguise it. As newborns,
they may be easy to pass off as puppies or lizardlings,
but as they age and begin walking on two feet, you'll
need to use better techniques. l suggest investigating
magical disguises or steering clear of rearing these
humanoids in urban areas entirely.

Training Your Beast

After showing your baby the basics, you'1l want to
teach it new skills, unless yow're content with having
a pet who is dependant on you and unable to do
anything in return for your years of rearing, in which
case you're probably better off buying a traditional


--- INICIO PÁGINA 13 ---

house cat. Having a well-trained beast who can
perform unique tricks is the primary reason anyone
becomes a beastmaster to begin with.

Before you begin teaching your beast new skills,
consider its strengths and weaknesses. You're
probably not going to have much luck training a
minotaur to stealthily pick a lock, but training it to
chase intruders around your hedge maze would be
right up its alley. Likewise, a kobold makes a poor
drawbridge guardian, but it does make a fantastic
scout. By training your beast to work to its strengths,
you'll have a much easier job.

Even though some creatures are fierce and
instinctual predators, you should resist the urge to
punish them harshly during training. One school of
thought tells beastmasters to whip and starve their
beasts in an effort to make them more ferocious. Be
warned: Such techniques often lead to uncontrollable
beasts with an appetite for their master. Instead, try
using positive reinforcement to reward good behavior.
Your pet will not only be more willing to listen to you,
it will be more capable of learning the tricks you're
trying to teachit.

Rewarding good behavior is a key element to
rearing baby beasts. When teaching them a new trick,
give them a tasty treat (or shiny trinket for some
creatures) to assure them what they did was correct.
At the end of a long day of repetitive activities,
consider grooming or singing to them; you'll form
a tight bond with your pet and it will be more likely
to work with you in the future. This is especially
important for anyone rearing a beast to be a guardian;
the last thing you want is for a disgruntled cockatrice
to turn you to stone when you least expect it.

Beasts as Mounts

Il once knew a dwarf named Torvald Gloryhammer
who decided he wanted to raise a grey render so he
could ride it into battle. Despite the bond he formed
with the beast, its giant two-legged form just wasn't
designed for the task. Several cure spells and a long
recovery period later, Torvald decided his next mount
would be a warhorse instead.

Let this be a cautionary tale. Many trainers get
into the business of raising baby beasts for the sole
purpose of one day using it as a mount, but they don't
always know what they're getting into. Not every
creature makes a suitable mount, so remember to do
your research before making your selection.

You need to consider your potential mount's

suitability for bearing a rider. Blink dogs, for example,
make terrible mounts—you only get about three feet
(1 m) before they go ethereal and you wind up on the
ground. Sphinxes tend to be too smart and proud to
let anyone ride them, and gelatinous cubes... well,
let's just say if you can train a gargantuan blob of jelly
to be your ride, P'll eat my hat.

Some mounts are challenging to train but worth the
effort. It can be difficult to get all three of a cerberus”
heads to cooperate, but if you can train one to carry
you into battle, then you have a strong ally on your
side. Many dragons can be convinced to bear you
as a rider, but they can be finicky and often require
something in return. Finally, nightmares, with their
flaming hooves and smoking nostrils, while some
of the coolest and most terrifying mounts on the
battlefield, are as ornery as a wild stallion and twice
as difficult to domesticate.

Once you've chosen a suitable species to be your
mount, make sure you commit to training it for this
purpose. Not all beasts are naturally inclined to let
someone ride atop their back and charge head-first
into a horde of orcs. It takes planning, practice,
and patience to raise your baby for this task, so if
you're not up for it, then perhaps you should choose
a simpler trick to teach it, such as rolling over or
fetching sticks.

Stages of Development

There are three main developmental stages for beasts:
baby, juvenile, and adult. Some naturalists further
separate these into smaller categories; 1 found 42
Molting Patterns of Phoenixes, written by Janni
Aldan Cindersson, to be particularly fascinating, but I
feel that any more than three is just splitting hairs.

Babies represent the youngest of a creature's”
specific species, but that doesn't necessarily mean the
beast hasn't lived for several years. Humans may only
take 18 years to transform from infants to adults,
but for a dragon that's barely enough time to be even
considered a juvenile. Kobolds, meanwhile, reach
maturity in a matter of a few years, so they're only
considered babies for the first several months of their
lives.

It's during this stage that you must train your beast
to have good habits and be obedient. If you don't,
they tend to become juvenile delinquents, and nobody
likes a sphinx with an attitude or a cerberus who
can't sit and stay. Obedience training is particularly
difficult because every creature responds differently


--- INICIO PÁGINA 14 ---

to various stimuli: Minotaurs require a firm, some
say aggressive, hand, while treant saplings tend to
listen as long as you give them plenty of water and
sunshine. If you find one tactic isn't working, reread
my entry on the beast to see if you can get an idea for
their personality, and modify your tactics accordingly.
At the juvenile stage, your beast is mostly self-
sufficient but still requires guidance and supervision.
If you've been doing your job as a parent, they may
survive on their own in the wild, but this is the
stage where you can teach them new tricks that
aren't essential to their survival. Juveniles may be
intelligent enough to learn several new nonessential
skills, which tends to be the goal of most beast
trainers.

When your beast reaches adulthood, it should be
able to be wholly self-sufficient. If you were to keel
over dead one day, it would be able to continue living
without you, but ideally you'll live a long and healthy

life alongside your pet. Some long-lived species
(such as treants and dragons) may outlive their
masters, so it's important that you raise them to be
high functioning adults who will take care of your
descendants. Other, shorter-lived species only last a
few years, so you need to get used to rearing and re-
rearing these types of pets.

Protecting Your Baby Beast

As much as you need to protect the rest of the world
from your monster-to-be, you need to protect your
baby beast from the outside world. Even a creature as
powerful as a dragon is susceptible to poachers and
slavers when it is young and helpless. It's important
to know the risks associated with raising a baby beast
and what you can do to keep it safe.

All baby beasts can fetch a price on the market (or
black market, if they're prohibited), but rare and
exotic creatures come at a premium. That means



--- INICIO PÁGINA 15 ---

the rarer the creature, the more likely you are to
encounter someone who's willing to do anything

to take it from you. Thieves might be interested in
selling your baby for a small fortune, but if your
creature is known for having potent alchemical
components, it could be poached for its parts.
Phoenix feathers, minotaur horns, dragon scales,
and treant sap are just a few alchemical components
poachers desire.

When your baby beast is young, it is important to
keep a close eye on it. If you have the magical means
to create a sleepless guardian to protect it, you should
do so no matter the cost. If not, spend as much as you
can afford on guards, wards, walls, and locks to try to
keep poachers away. Avoid hiring someone to protect
your beast if possible; 've found you can't trust
people who are willing to put their lives on the line for
a bit of money.

Once your beast is a bit older, it may be able to
defend itself, but that doesn't mean you should
leave it alone. I recommend using a leash (if your
beast doesn't violently protest) while in public so
others know, without a doubt, the creature is yours.
Should poachers attempt to take your pet anyway,
it's important to remember that you may use force
to protect it. If you're not the sort to do that, then
ignore what 1 said earlier about hiring sellswords,
but remember to use them only with constant
supervision.

Returning a Beast to the Wild

If you've decided beast training just isn't for you, or
if your pet has destroyed too much of your property
to keep it around, you may choose to return it to the
wild. Remember that, like any domesticated creature,
a beast raised by anyone other than its natural
parents is vulnerable to the outside world. It needs to
have the knowledge and tools necessary to be able to
effectively live on its own, otherwise you're dooming
it, and that wouldn't be very responsible of you.

If your beast has relied solely on you for its food,
you need to teach it how to hunt and forage in the
wild before you can release it. If you don't, it may
be unable to feed itself without finding a humanoid
population to satisfy its needs. Generally speaking,
by the time your beast is a juvenile, it should have
learned the skills it needs to fend for itself. If yours
hasn't, you may need to spend additional time helping
it become self-sufficient.

Depending on your beast, it may be a boon to
the local ecology when you reintroduce it to its
natural habitat. Some creatures help maintain local
populations of secondary consumers or predators,
while others are... well, let's just say your pet might
be one of those secondary predators. In either case,
unless you're releasing an abundance of creatures into
the wilds all at once, which may unbalance the local
ecology, you're probably doing a good thing for the
environment by lettingit go.

Of course, you need to know just where to release
your pet. Some creatures are solitary mountain
dwellers, for example, so releasing them into an
overcrowded forest may have undesired effects. If it's
a top predator, it may devastate the population of
local prey animals. On the other hand, if it is released
into an environment where it has no natural prey, it
may starve to death. Be mindful of when and where
you release your pet if you want it to survive and live
along, healthy, environmentally friendly life.

11.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 16 ---

Base! Difficulty,
Extremel y Difficult

Intelligence

BASILISK LIZARDLING

Clever

WARNING: Extremely Dangerous

Some local legends claim that the first basilisk
emerged from a lizard's egg that was turned to stone,
then incubated by a cockatrice; quite ridiculous if you
ask me because it does not work. The basilisk, often
confused for the cockatrice, is a lizard-like creature
with eight small legs, armed with a powerful grinding
jaw and a gaze that can turn its prey to stone.

What is known for certain about them is that they
are deeply connected to the minerals that compose
their nest. This is demonstrated by their habitat choice,
eating tendencies, mineral scent and even the mineral
their victim is transformed into. Most varieties will
turn their victims to slate, sandstone or granite, but
there are rare cases where 1 have seen basilisks turn
their victims into jade, lapis and even obsidian. No
matter what, they make stunning statues out of any
living thing.

Egg Care

Basilisks lay their eggs bi-annually in pure mineral
deposits. The eggs blend into their surroundings

with matching colors and shapes, making them very
difficult to locate and identify, and are almost as hard
as the rocks themselves. This serves to protect them
if stepped upon, although this probably wouldn't help
under the feet of a giant.

The nest is mixed with similar sized stones to
provide both food and camouflage for the hatchlings.
If you have obtained multiple eggs, 1 recommend that
you separate them and pack them inside a barrel of
stones that match the mineral of the egg and nest.

Tf this is not done, or a blend of minerals is used, the
emergent lizardling will be weaker than its potential.
Upon hatching, basilisk lizardlings immediately

begin consuming both the stones and eggs aroundit,
ensuring that only the strongest of the clutch survives
(hence the need for separating the eggs).

General Care

Despite their small size when hatched, basilisks

are very hungry and very dangerous. Their stone-
turning gaze is functional upon hatching and cannot
be disabled, so by far the best method to handle
basilisks is to be fully prepared with safeguards
against petrification. 1 strongly recommend keeping
the creature in an isolated pen where it can hunt and

124

explore without posing a threat to anyone outside the
pen, unless that is intentional...

Although the basilisk can eat various raw minerals
and stones, itis far more nutritious for them to feed
upon prey they've turned to stone. This is important as
it will affect both the basilisk's growth and the strength
of their gaze. Some trainers do this to intentionally,
weakening the gaze so that less precautions are
required to handle and train it. The problem with this
practice is that it stunts the growth and power of the
basilisk's gaze, which grows more powerful with age. It
also leaves you with a hungry, upset basilisk who will
take any opportunity to turn on its trainers.

Training
The best way I can describe a basilisk's gaze is that of
a continuous ray, radiating from their eyes which can
never be disabled or turned off. This coincidentally
makes it easy to track the beast by just following the
zig-zag of petrified matter. However, its gaze is still
dangerous and very lethal. When working with a
basilisk, it is important to wear protective gear and to
keep a fail-safe nearby. My recommendation is to use
goggles with petrified amber lenses, and a travel cloak
that completely covers the skin with the stoneskin
spell cast upon it. It does not matter whether it's
permanent or not as the spell should last you a number
of hours, however spellcasting fees do to add up, so the
enchantment may be a more affordable option. As for
the fail-safe, 1 recommend a spellcaster or potions to
revert any damage that the basilisk may cause during
training.

Both solitary and very temperamental creatures,
basilisks have no conception of hierarchy making
training a very difficult and drawn-out process that can
take upwards of three to five years. Don't feed it prior
to any training exercises and utilize its favorite snacks
to reward good behavior, though don't expect too much
in the early years. When you start, you may need to
be a little forceful as basilisks do not initially respond
quickly or well to verbal feedback.

Once during my travels 1 met a young wizard rearing
her own basilisk, whose gaze turned objects into rose
quartz. For special guests she would gift a rose turned
to quartz; 1 still keep a beautiful example with me on

my travels.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 17 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 18 ---

BLINK PUPPY

This distinct dog breed is easily recognizable by
uniquely glossed eyes, lovable demeanor and,
obviously, its ability to teleport (otherwise known as
blinking) from place to place. Of course, this is only the
face their owners see; enemies can expect to be greeted
with snarling jaws and plenty of unexpected attacks.
Blink dogs are feared for their unanticipated assaults,
blinking in to take a bite out of their prey, only to
teleport away to safety. Blink puppies fetch quite the
ransom on the black market, so poachers are known to
go to great lengths to grab them.

When a female blink dog is in heat she creates a scent
trail, teleporting from spot to spot, leaving a sort of
scavenger hunt for the male to follow. Only the most
diligent suitors with the strongest noses and keen
sense of teleportation will find the female waiting in a
dark cave for her suitor to arrive. Though no one has
actually witnessed blink dog mating, those who have
seen the cave from afar note the firework-like flashing
that occurs.

The gestation period lasts three months, resulting in
a litter of two to five puppies. When they are born they
fit in the palm of a hand, not opening their eyes for at
least four days. Once they do, they instantly imprint on
the first being they see, showing them extreme loyalty
for the rest of their lives. In most cases, this loyalty
imprints on their parents and the other puppies,
creating an instant familial bond. However, this is the
primary reason why poachers crave newborn puppies,
placing them in a dark box so that they can bond with
the highest bidder.

For the first few months, both parents reside in the
cave until the pup is old enough to run on its own.
During this time, the parents are fiercely territorial,
even showing a defensive hostility to members of
their own pack. There have been several instances of
passersby who have been severely mauled for passing
too close to a blink dog cave that had newborn pups
inside. Only when the pups have grown into their full
range of motion and coordination do the parents rejoin
their pack and return to their mostly-nomadic lifestyle.

General Care

Rearing blink puppies is a difficult but rewarding duty.
With enough love and care, the pup can grow into a
part of any family; one that, even if they teleport away,

14.

Rearing Difficulty
ricky
Intelligence
Intelligent

they"1l always return to. The job is made easier if the
pup has imprinted on their owner, intensifying their
connection and affection for them.

While blink puppies are capable of eating either meat
or plants in their diet, many breeders have actually
found a connection between diet and attitude. Raw
meats tend to make them aggressive while a purely
vegetarian diet will make the blink dog completely
docile. 1 expect that a majority of you are expecting to
have the blink dog accompany you on your journeys so
it is recommended to ensure a balanced diet.

To give one a bath and wash away the dust and dirt,
one only needs to get them into the water. Their fur is
quite thin, and just a little dousing is enough to fully
clean them off. Getting them wet is the problem, since
their teleportation abilities are innately connected
to their instinctive reactions. Their blinking makes
playing fetch a breeze and makes avoiding their licks
much harder, but bath-time can take all day. Blink
puppies actually like to be dirty for some reason, too,
always rolling around in the nearest patch of mud.

Training
The biggest question owners get is, “How do you keep a
blink puppy from running away?” Getting a regular dog
to stay still while attempting to train itis hard enough,
but one that can teleport anywhere they can see? You
can't cage them and you can't leash them, but there is
a thing called a temporal leash, an especially expensive
item usually sold at an exorbitant up-charge when
purchasing a blink puppy. The leash is placed around
the puppy's neck and a control bracelet around the
owner's wrist, keeping them from going too far before
hitting an invisible wall. It is a small price to pay for the
security of one's furry child.

Owners should always keep an eye out for people
watching when their dog blinks. The sight can startle
the unexpecting and entice the unsavoury. Poachers
are everywhere, and even though newborns are ideal,
unscrupulous patrons will still pay good money for
adolescent or adult blink dogs if they can get their
hands on them.

Living conditions for captive puppies are often
terrible, as they are confined to dark, stifling
crates awaiting new owners to bond with.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 19 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 20 ---

BULETTE BILLY

Bulettes, also known as land sharks, share both

size and appetite with the largest of their ocean
namesakes. Their ability to swim” through the ground
gives them a huge advantage in hunting, as they
burrow beneath their prey and pounce from below,
leaving victims unaware until attacked or swallowed
whole. If challenged, their armored hides give them
effective protection until they have a chance to dive
back into the earth.

This burrowing, along with their love of humanoid
flesh, makes bulettes difficult to study in the wild.
Several academics speculate about how these beasts
reproduce, but none has any hard evidence to support
their theories. My own experience with them has led
to the following conclusions.

The female lays her eggs in a pocket of earth laced
with a musk to attract bulls. Once a bull finds this
he will fertilize them and then store the eggs in a
special pouch near the base of the tail. Gestation lasts
approximately 16 to 18 months, whereupon a single
bulette billy will emerge. Though several egg pods are
laid, the strongest hatchling consumes the others as
soon as it emerges. Once large enough to crawl out of
the bull's pocket the pup is left to fend for itself.

The smallest billies recorded measure 1-% feet (0.5
m) long and are deceptively heavy, at around 100
pounds (45 kg). Even a few hours after emerging their
hides have hardened enough to protect them from the
jagged rocks they will encounter while burrowing.

General Care

Rearing a bulette billy is a monumental task. Not
only are the beasts large, they are unpredictable and
quick to forget training if left unpracticed. Once you
acquire your baby bulette, be it by trapping or from
the corpse of a carrying bull, you will find that they
are quite snappy yet very impressionable and eager to
please an owner who feeds them.

Raising a bulette billy is similar to raising a puppy,
albeit a huge, terrifying, burrowing, carnivorous and
destructive puppy whose grooming gear was designed
by dwarven miners.

Bulettes prefer to eat live prey in great quantities.
When young it's fine to feed them chickens and other
small farm animals, however as they grow larger you

16.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Instinctual

will find that they prefer the taste of humanoid flesh.
If you find it distasteful to provide them such fare,
you may choose to substitute horses and livestock
instead, but be warned that there's a reason many
bulette trainers have wooden legs.

Though unpredictable, billies are not uncontrollable.
Many attribute their erratic behavior to their lack
of parental guidance, and billies raised in captivity
have been seen to exhibit great restraint, especially in
attempting to feed on nearby halflings. The important
thing to remember with a billy is consistency: Regular
feeding schedules, bedtimes, and grooming sessions
provide a structure to their life that diminishes the
urges that come from life in the wild.

Grooming your billy is simple if you have access to
a large body of wet sand, or volcanic pumice. Coaxing
your billy to swim through these materials will scour
away dirt and loose shell plates, and help remove any
parasites that may have become lodged in the places
you can't reach with a grooming chisel.

Training
Though dangerous, rearing a bulette billy is an
intensely rewarding experience. The most important
thing I would reiterate would be to maintain
consistency in their daily habits.

The trickiest part about owning a billy is the use of
its extraordinary burrowing ability, as it can cause
lots of damage, and panic, in any urbanized region.
Consider drilling a hole through the rim of the
head-shield (don't worry, it won't hurt them) and
anchoring them with a long steel chain attached to
a well-sunk metal pole. You can then train them to
respond to depth commands with taps on the chain
and reward them by hiding bits of food at those
depths for the bulette to find. Invest in magical
digging equipment or X-ray vision devices to help you
locate a sulking or sleeping billy, and try dragging
a log behind you to distract a playful critter from
targeting your ankles.

Due to the bulette's enormous size and feated
predatory dominance (and, frankly, their shape), many
believe that consuming particular organs will serve as
fertility enhancers. These organs fetch high prices in
various “specialty” markets so be waty of poachets.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 21 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 22 ---

CENTAUR FOAL

The lives of centaurs revolve primarily around their
extended families. Each herd is comprised of several
adult females (known as mares) their offspring,

and younger males. The adult males (known as
stallions) stake out a territory around the edges of
the larger tribal lands and function as border guards
and buffers to the outside world. When it nears

the mating season, once every five years as marked
by the constellations they hold sacred, the various
tribes come together and hold a Naadam, a sort of
highly-cultural tournament. However, it is far more
nuanced than any elvish tradition that 1 have ever
encountered. Lasting for an entire month, the event
is composed of various tourneys where the stallions
compete against each other in poetry, hunting,
archery and carving in addition to games of strength,
wits and endurance. Some of the races continue for

a day and a night, and itis a humbling sight indeed,
to see a field of strong young stallions wobbling like a
foal from exhaustion. Their dances are awe-inspiring
as well, with the massive creatures leaping high into
the air so that the earth shudders at their landing.
Yet do not think centaurs mindless - their riddles and
labyrinths would put our most revered elders to the
test. Although there is no single decisive winner of
the event, it is the time where the mares pick their
partners based on the performances they enjoy most.
They present their chosen stallion with gifts of food,
hand-made sashes and decorative ornaments. The two
centaurs perform a sacred marriage rite and are then
bonded for life. The new husband spends an entire
lunar cycle with their bride, then returns to the outer
tribes, finding opportunities to visit their children
and wives whenever possible.

Pregnancy lasts for 16 months, after which the
mother's herd prepares a secure place with plenty of
straw, water and blankets. The eldest females assist
with the birth while the younger family members
walk a vigil around the birthplace, singing songs and
making gifts for the young foal. Unlike horses or
humanoids, centaurs are not born head first; their
unique anatomy has the infant emerge horse-chest
first, with the human torso laid across its back, so the
head and rear hips appear together. A most unusual
and privileged sight!

18.

ps Difficulty
asy

Intelligence
Civilized

General Care

Centaurs are omnivorous, though they tend to
prefer a vegetarian diet, leaving cooked meats for
special occasions. Unlike horses, a centaur cannot
walk within hours of birth. It takes until it is about
a month old to get its legs under it. Once the foals
find their walking legs, though, they quickly pick up
running as well, though they tend to trip over their
own feet until they can master their hooves. Even
more so than human babies, centaur foals bounce.
Their hair also grows much faster than that of a
human, producing full manes and tails by 6 months
old.

Now it's important to remember that although
a newborn centaur may have the appearance of a
5-year-old human, they have not developed any
language skills, which they acquire at the same
rate as humans. Instead of making the baby noises
commonly recognized by humans, foals make a soft
whickering noise most pleasant to the ear.

Once they hit puberty, all fat is shed, and the
centaur becomes a lanky, gangling tangle of limbs.
Both sexes are subject to violent mood swings and
physical impulses. A frequent pastime involves
wrestling with arms and forelegs by rearing up.
Once, I was caring for a set of twins and was nearly
trampled on a daily basis! Although young, they are
stronger that you think, so expect buffeting and
bruises from even the calmest foal.

Until they reach 9 years of age, the children are
cared for by all the mothers of the tribe. When
they have their first coming of age ceremony, the
adolescents begin to learn the more mature aspects of
their culture. Mares will remain with their mother's
herd, raising their children next to their siblings and
cousins. Stallions will begin spending time with adult
males, learning how to patrol and mark territory up
until they reach sexual maturity, at which point they
will claim their own land and prepare to compete for
female attention at the next Naadam.

Pregnant centaur urineis highly prized on the black
market due to its use in gender-changing spells and
potions for postmenopausal women. It is usually
consumed in powdered form. Care should be taken,
as some individuals react to its ingestion by growing

along, silky mane down the length of their spine.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 23 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 24 ---

CERBERUS PUPPY

Known forits multiple heads, monstrous size and
loyal, possessive nature, a cerberus resembles a very
large mastiff with three heads conjoined at the base
of its neck. Typically standing between 6-% and 7 feet
tall (2 meters), these canines are fiercely territorial
and are vicious hunters. Capable of using each head
independently for keeping watch, a trained cerberus
makes a marvelous guard or loyal hunting companion.

During the mating season, males will wander their
vast territories in search of a female, sometimes
travelling up to 80 miles (129 km) in a single day.
When the male comes across a female in heat, he will
alert her to his presence by giving a warbling sound
from his throats. Should the female be receptive to his
advances, she will return the call and approach him.
Often, a mating pair will stay together for several days,
hunting and mating until the female grows bored and
forces the male to leave.

When she is ready to give birth, a pregnant cerberus
will seek out a suitable den and make a nest out of
nearby plant material, typically out of branches and
tall grasses. She will also ensure that the entrance of
the den is hidden and/or masked to protect her pups
from any would-be predators. A female cerberus will
generally give birth to between two and four pups,
though normally only one or two will survive the
first few weeks due to the fierce competition for their
mother's milk.

General Care

As carnivores, cerberi eat meat as fresh as they can

get it but, if raised from a pup, they will tolerate some
forms of cooked meat and fish. Fully grown cerberi,
even those that are domesticated, prefer to hunt for
their own food. This should be encouraged as much

as possible to ensure that none of the heads become
bored, as this often leads to destructive behavior. Think

- L
Cerberi can survive the loss of either outer head,
should they not succumb to infection or blood
loss, but not the removal of the central head. An
old demon hunter 1 once knew cauterised the
stump of his loyal, wunded companion with the
only thing he had available, his metal holy symbol.
Forever after, the missing head would reappear as
a burst of eldritch green flame whenever demons

| Were near.

Rearing Difficulty
ricky
Intelligence
Clever

one gnawing head is bad? try three!.

When raised from a pup, a cerberus is an intensely
loyal companion, sharing many of the characteristics
of a domesticated dog including tail wagging, barking,
and playfulness. In this sense, a domesticated cerberus
is very much like a large, intelligent, three-headed
Collie. General care and grooming is very much the
same as with other domesticated dogs, albeit on a
much larger scale. Care must be taken to ensure that
the space between each head, where fleas and other
parasites can nest, is kept clean; the cerberus cannot
reach these areas easily by itself. Regular baths, both
in water and in dust, are an important part of bonding
with a cerberus, as this is normally when the creature is
most relaxed.

Training

Training a cerberus can be a challenging task,
particularly when the creature is still quite young.
Although slightly more intelligent than most
domesticated dogs, you must have the attention of all
three heads for any training exercise to be successful,
otherwise the effort will be wasted as the unengaged
heads will distract those that are paying attention.
This is particularly important when playing games
like fetch, as all three heads will compete for the same
object even if there are enough objects for each head.

Basic training for simple commands should begin
when the puppy is approximately 16 weeks old. By this
time, the puppy should be fully weaned and moderately
house-trained. As with domesticated dogs, one-word
commands will work best, as the puppy is less likely
to become confused. As the puppy grows older, more
complex commands may be taught, though these
should be limited to simple statements or sentences
to ensure that they are fully understood. Some cerberi
can be trained to accept a command to each head
separately, though this training technique is extremely

difficult.

Although no one knows the true origin of cerberi,
it appears they first emerged from the nine layers
of Hell. Early stories of the cerberus told of it being
able to sniff out spirits and bring them back to the
layers of Hell, or consume them, depending on the
story. If true, one should be able to train a cerberus
to track or detect undead spirits.

20.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 25 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 26 ---

CHIMERA CUB

A winged beast with the heads of a dragon, a goat,
and a lion, the chimera is considered by many to

be a naturally evil creature. While dangerous, the
chimera is no more temperamental than your average
bear; territorial, occasionally aggressive, with no
qualms about hunting humans and livestock as
needed. Competing biannually for mates, both male
and females vie for prime territory and partners.
Consistent victors of either sex will often pair up for
the mating seasons. During the gestation period,
mated pairs will live within the same territory, as the
male will hunt, bring food, and defend the pregnant
female who is unable to fly during the later stages of
pregnancy.

Typically chimerae only bear one pup, but in the
event of twins the weaker sibling rarely survives to
adolescence. Chimera pups are weaned from their
mother after three months, during which time the
father will continue to care for the female and the pup.
Once the pup has been weaned, the mother leaves the
territory for a hunting spree, regaining her strength,
while the male chimera remains with and cares for the
pup until its adulthood. Chimera pups also fledge at
this time. Male chimera will not leave their pup alone
during this period, taking their offspring on hunting
expeditions. This serves a dual purpose: Young chimera
learn first by example by watching their father hunt,
and the father can protect the young from other adult
chimera that would otherwise target and kill them.

The chimera's three heads are observed to behave
more like three siblings when they are newborn
and adolescent, often snapping at each other and
competing for food. During the young chimera's time
in its father's care, it learns to hunt and fight using
its three heads in concert. The adult male begins by
showing his pup how to fly and hunt, supplementing
these expeditions with play that emulates combat.
Finally, he will supervise his pup as it brings back prey
of its own. Adolescence lasts from two to three years,
after which the young chimera finds new grounds in
which to hunt.

Chimera exhibit minimal sexual dimorphism;
females are slightly larger, whereas the male have
slightly more lustrous wings, which appear gold in
contrast to the female's brown feathers.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Clever

General Care

Chimera are born very small, only about the size of a
goat, but grow quickly, reaching 12 feet (3.6 meters)
after the first year. The first signs of a mane will

begin appear on the lion head after 8 months, a good
indicator of its health and age. At 16 months, the
wings become fully-grown and functional. Typically
the parents will aid in the cleaning and preening until
the individual heads have sorted themselves out; with
them out of the picture you will have to assist the pup.

With the rapid growth comes a voracious appetite. To
make matters even worse, each head feels that they're
hungry independently, causing them to snap and
fight with each other over food, fresh meat. I honestly
recommend you not break the heads up and let them
fight, as this helps define each of the personalities
of the heads and also helps the chimera realize itis a
single creature with three heads working together.

Training
Chimera, like many animals, are capable of imprinting
if they are found very young. However, only chimera
pups who are orphaned or stolen before they wean—
within the first three months—will be capable of being
truly trained. At this juncture, a human caretaker must
emulate the mother's behavior. Infant chimera can
survive on goat milk supplemented with herbal magical
components, and they should be bathed with wet
cloths and held in warmed blankets during this period.
Chimera pups that are taken in before maturation but
after the weaning period can be trained to a point, but
they will always be mostly feral.

Chimera are not truly sentient, but they are cunning
and intelligent hunters. If left unsupervised and
without ample exercise, they are likely to become
destructive. Chimera pups need play, much in the same
way as other young predators, to emulate combat and
hunting. It is inadvisable for a human to roughhouse
with a young chimera without proper precautions, as
the chimera's dragon head is capable of breathing fire
within the first year (which nearly blew my head off
last spring).

Unlike mundane lions, both female and male
chimera grow full manes on their lion heads.

2d


--- INICIO PÁGINA 27 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 28 ---

COCKATRICE CHICK

Rearing Difficulty
Extremely Difficult

Intelligence
lever

WARNING: Extremely Dangerous

“A unique creature that is both cockerel and serpent, the
cockatrice has a deceptive appearance. Its apparent lack of
natural weapons would lead one to look upon its beautiful
plumage and fantastic scales, but such activity would be folly.
Gazing upon the cockatrice is harmless, but be careful not to
stare, for ifit turns its eyes back to you, it will surely turn you
to stone.”

is popularly believed that the cockatrice is the result
of some wizard melding magic with nature. Oddly
flexible creatures, the cockatrice can lay its own eggs
or steal the eggs of serpents or fowl to hatch cockatrice
chicks. What makes the creature most fascinating is its
ability to acquire traits, and sometimes abilities, if the
incubating creature is a magical reptile of some sort. 1
once acquired a cockatrice egg incubated by a couatl;
the cockatrice 1 reared had beautiful rainbow scales
and plumage and even was capable of magical abilities,
albeit uncontrolled and sporadic.

Egg Care

If you have obtained a cockatrice egg, the easiest thing
for you to do is to let a chicken incubate it for you; it
does not have to be a chicken but they are the easiest
surrogate to come by. If you are adventurous, find
some magical reptile or bird and have it incubate your
egg. If you happen to have a willing dragon or phoenix
lying around, it would be particularly helpful for you to
document and share your results.

General Care

As cold-blooded creatures, cockatrices need external
warmth to regulate their body temperature, which
makes them poor candidates for livingin the depths of
a dark dungeon. They do, however, make great outdoor
watch-pets.

A chick's stony gaze isn't as immediately deadly as
an adult cockatrice's, but 1 still advise you keep your
other animal companions and familiars out of their
line of sight. Oddly, the creatures do not actually feed
on stone, but they do seem to admire their petrified
creations. More intelligent cockatrices have been
observed to bait their victims into forming silly poses
before permanently turning them into commemorative

24.

figurines for their nests.

Contrary to what many believe, the cockatrice's
diet consists of very few minerals. The beasts prefer
to eat eggs, especially other cockatrice eggs, and
it is important to keep a healthy supply on hand.
Thankfully, chicks only eat about one meal per day,
but expect their appetites to increase as they reach
maturity.

Training

Rearing and training a cockatrice chick is difficult and
dangerous work, but unlike the basilisk the cockatrice
is capable of controlling its gaze ability. The beasts are
lazy and self-serving, and all they have to do is look at
you funny to make you stop what you're doing. If you
can manage to raise a chick to adulthood and get it to
do what you want, you'll have a fantastically powerful
pet (and a lot of spare statuary to sell).

There are three essential items to possess to
successfully train a cockatrice: a mongoose (for keeping
itin line, as they are immune to the gaze), a pair of
petrified spectacles (to limit exposure to their gaze),
and a stockpile of stone-to-flesh potions. If you can
train the mongoose to administer the potions, all the
better.

When training a cockatrice, be cognizant of their
feelings. As the chick becomes bored, tired, or
frustrated, it may demand more sun or leisure time.
Not giving in to the chick's demands could spell bad
news for you and those around you. Though it may
seem like placating the creature is counter to your
ability to control it, a relationship with a cockatrice is
more like an agreement to cohabitate than a master-
pet arrangement.

a L

Alchemists prize the cockatrice for its ability to
transmute living material into minerals. Many
believe it is possible to raise a cockatrice capable
of turning flesh to gold, but the precise chicken-
reptile pairing has yet to be discovered. Although
many alchemists continue to raise cockatrices for
their own experiments, many have given up this
pursuit in favor of rearing basilisks, with a similar
goal in mind.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 29 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 30 ---

COUATL NEONATE

Naturally gifted with telepathy and planar
teleportation, couatl are capable of powerful magics
and associated with natural phenomena such as
hurricanes and rainbows. Wise and powerful, they are
often worshiped as gods and have even been known to
serve the gods themselves.

With an adult wingspan of 35 feet (10.6 m), they
travel long distances to form huge networks with other
intelligent and powerful creatures, such as other couatl
families, phoenixes and even good dragons. The couatl
see themselves as stewards and guides, often forming
benevolent relationships with the tribes and cities of
their homeland, typically warm or tropical forests and
high misty mountains.

Once they reach maturity, unpaired couatl gather
from across entire continents to choose a new mate.
Choosing places with hot thermal updrafts, they
each perform an intricate and unique aerial dance; if
another couatl's dance appeals the two will combine
their manoeuvres, after which the two will move off
to roost together. Pairs remain together for twenty
years, and then choose a new mate, but maintain
contact with old mates and offspring to maintain
their networks. The female lays three eggs in a nest,
constructed by her mate, of feathers, furs and tributes
offered by people the pair have helped in their travels.
Occasionally the couatl have been known to bring
trusted servants, provided by the civilizations they
interact with, to their roost to serve as assistants in
caring for their neonates.

Egg Care

Couatl eggs are about 16 inches (40 cm) at their
longest point, with the shell a deep jade hue. As the
egg matures, a rainbow sheen develops across the shell,
until the original green is but one color among the

rest, at which point the egg hatches. They must be kept
warm at all times, or the egg will cease to develop.
Once laid, egg clutches are carefully buried somewhere

Couatl feathers are sought after by collectors
and certain cultures for their size, resilience, and
brilliant colors. Fortunately, couatl molt feathers
on a regular basis and a steady business between
couatl communities and collectors inevitably
develops for their spectacular plumage.

26.

Rearing Difficult
Tricky Y
Intelligence
Superior

with consistent high temperatures; in deep sand
near natural hot springs, volcanic ash, or stable
elemental fire vents. If no such place is available, then
burying in an earthen pile surrounded by a fire ring
kept constantly alight will suffice. Incubation lasts
approximately 14 months, and by the twelfth month
you can start to hear clicking and scratching within
the shell as the neonate begins to become active.
Couatl believe that a neonate should break free from
its shell on its own, though they offer telepathic
encouragement to their young.

General Care

Since couatl can communicate telepathically with any
intelligent creatures in their presence even before
hatching, they begin to speak with their nest-mates,
parents and carers during the last several months
within their shells. If you start to hear a voice in your
head while tending a clutch you're not going crazy, it's
just the hatchling getting to know you and beginning
to develop its natural curiosity.

Care and training of couatl is relatively easy for a
dedicated caretaker who has an understanding of
magic and access to plentiful food sources for a growing
omnivorous neonate. A balanced diet of meats, flowers,
fruits and roots is needed; couatl require the same
range of food as humanoid adults from birth, although
their appetites grow until they can consume a small
cow and equivalent amounts of other food types in a
single day.

As intelligent creatures who are born with an
intellect equivalent to a 3-year-old human, teaching is
essential from the first moments of birth. Since they
are fundamentally good creatures, couatl neonates are
very trusting and will listen to their caretakers and
follow instructions almost to a fault.

As they mature over two decades, neonates benefit
from contact with adult couatl; if possible, such
contact should be encouraged. Adult couatl can teach
adolescent couatl essential skills in plane shifting,
teleportation, and flying that non-couatl caretakers
are not always capable of. Adult couatl understand
the bond between a caretaker and a child, and unless
there are signs of abuse, they will not try to remove
the adolescent couatl from the care of their non-couatl
parent.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 31 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 32 ---

D

9 rank dragons of any kind amongst the most
dangerous and difficult to rear, next to the dodomeki
and the rakshasa but, like all rearing efforts, it
definitely pays off if you get it right. They have

an immense intellectual capacity and an alluring
obsession with treasure. This combination makes them
difficult to raise and keep under control, but once a
dragon bonds with its owner, they develop a kinship
that cannot easily be broken.

When a dragon is gravid, she will carve out a new
section of her lair to lay her eggs. Once laid, the female
dragon will perch outside her lair and roar to attract a
mate. Each dragon has slightly different cries, but to
the layman, it's all dragon. Once the male dragon has
fertilized the eggs, it will leave, and regardless is chased
off as the mother's protective instincts switch on.

During the incubation process, the mother uses her
terrifying breath upon her eggs daily. Unlike the blast
most adventurers witness in their final moments, this
lasts for almost a minute, tiring her quickly as she
bathes the eggs in draconic essence. Since dragons have
few natural predators other than other dragons, and
the mother will not leave the nest unattended, their
eggs typically go undisturbed until they hatch. Once
hatched, the young are guarded and nurtured until
they learn to fly and defend themselves, which takes
about three months. After that, the wyrmlings leave
to find their own way. 1 have occasionally seen clutches
band together when ejected from their mother's lair,
forming what resembles a gang, though it's rare that
these groups last into adulthood.

Egg Care

If you find an egg and attempt to bringit to term,
realize you are embarking on a difficult and time-
consuming endeavor. The first step is identifying the
type of egg you have. This can be easy to do, if the egg

El
Dragon scales are a natural armor and provide a
great amount of resistance to whatever element
the dragon happens to be aligned with. When
a dragon matures to the next life stage (when
it transcends being a wyrmling and becomes
an adolescent dragon in its own right) it sheds
its infant scales like a human child loses teeth.
These scales can be harvested and used to craft
L incredibly rare and resilient armors.

RAGON WYRMLING

Rearing Difficulty
Difficult

Intelligence
Superior

was stolen from the nest of a known dragon. If not, you
can usually determine the type from the location you
discovered the egg. An egg found in a noxious swamp,
for example, would probably belong to a toxic green
dragon.

Once you have identified the egg and decided you
are going to hatch it, you will quickly realize you lack
the elemental breath of a mother dragon. You must
find a way to replicate this breath on your own and
bathe the egg in its element a few times a day. This
can be easy for some, like a frost or water dragon, and
more difficult for others. An egg can still hatch without
exposure to its element, but its breath weapon will
never be as powerful as a dragon that was exposed.

General Care

Itis imperative that you understand that you are not in
control of this dragon. It will never be your pet, and it
will never submit to you. A dragon can be a companion,
but only ifit deems you worthy of its friendship. The
bond between a dragon and its owner is strong, bested
only by the bond between wizards and their familiars.
The best way to ensure a bond is to care for the dragon
like it is your own child. Dragons are not only sentient,
they are intelligent, and they can tell when they are
being treated like a pet.

A dragon can care for itself; It can wash itself, feed
itself, and learn to fly on its own. Your job is to protect
it, watch overit, and ensure it has everything it needs.
If you put your life on the line for your dragon, it will
do the same for you.

An easy way to please your dragon is to help it
develop its first treasure hoard. You will undoubtedly
come home one day to find your dragon constructing
such a hoard from items it has found during its hunts.
Help the dragon guard the treasure, and you will
become inseparable. Just don't borrow anything from
it without negotiating first, or the inseparable will
become consumable.

Asit turns out, any dragon can fertilize any type
of dragon's eggs, but they will only ever reach full
maturity and power if parented by dragons of
matching elements, and more often than not a
dragon of unmatched type that gets close to eggs
will eat or destroy them.

28.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 33 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 34 ---

ELEMENTLETS

The mating rituals of elementals are hard to decipher,
as no one has actually witnessed two elementals
mating (or recognised if they have). The two most
commonly accepted theories are that either a single
elemental splits off a piece of itself into a smaller
elementals, or that two adult elementals combine
together to become a single entity then separate again,
but into three entities instead of the two that came
together. It is easy to overlook this process, as it can
be difficult to distinguish two elementals from a non-
sentient variety of element.

The presence of an elementlet outside of the
elemental worlds is a rare thing; due to their size, they
are difficult to locate. Most are typically overlooked as
temporary arcane manifestations or the miscasting
of some spell, which happens more than you'd think.
Yet it remains possible for the trained eye to pick out a
newborn elementlet. Maybe that drop of water never
evaporates, or that ember never burns out. Elementlets
take up residence where they can live immersed in their
element and can grow relatively undisturbed, such as

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Instinctual

Elementlets tend to take on the personality and
mannerisms associated with their element. Fire
elementlets are aggressive and unpredictable,
while water elementlets are fluid and flexible. By
understanding the element itself, trainers can
understand the way the elementlet thinks, and this will
help them bond.

Some elementlets are friendlier than others and

will develop closer relationships to their caretaker. In
general, they tend to be drawn toward wielders of the
magical arts, as they can sense the power that made
them. Also, magicians have an easier time raising

elementlets, as they can sustain their growth through
spells.

Training

Training an elementlet can be dangerous, depending

on the beast's element. Lightning and fire elementlets

have been known to seriously hurt or kill their

caretakers, usually by accident—but sometimes not.
Elementlets are difficult to predict. Others will use

training exercises as a means to escape, as elementlets
crave freedom.

The act of training depends heavily on the type of
elementlet. Some are best suited to combat roles,
others to agility or intelligence tests. They can be
taught to run through mazes, battle foes, and solve
complicated problems. Elementlets may lack the ability
to communicate with us normally, but they are nearly
as intelligent as we are.

A well-trained elementlet can grow to become a huge
boon. Elementals are in short supply and, especially
when coupled with a magician of that elemental school,
offer a rare amount of power that makes the rewards
worth the risks.

the local well or embers of a forge.

Finding a way to bring them home is another
story. Their lives are very delicate when they are
small, so any attempt at capture and storage must
be undertaken with great care. The most successful
method of capture 1 have seen is to lure the elementlets
into a custom-made terrarium. Sometimes these are
pocket-dimensions. Sometimes they are enchanted
environments which replicate the conditions of their
home plane.

General Care

Taking care of an elementlet is akin to producing
more of the element itself. A fire elementlet must be
provided with plenty of tinder for itself to feed upon.
An air elementlet must be given a large area in which to L
blow, picking up more air as it does so. Elementlets eat Deep in the underground black markets there
continuously. They absorb whatever is around them to exist illegal rings of elementlet battlers. These

power themselves and their growth. organizations bring in trainers who battle their
elementlets against each other; sometimes to the
death. They take bets on the battles, and some

of the best trainers rake in hundreds of gold

pieces from a single match. In most civilizations,
these activities are considered highly illegal and
dangerous. Trainers found participating in these
arenas are typically fined, imprisoned and have

their monster possession licenses revoked.

The best elementlet 1 ever trained was a little
pebble I called Chip. It would ride on my shoulder
making a deep, gentle humming sound, like it
was trying to remember the words to a song. 1
released it years ago now, at a gate to the Plane of
Elemental Earth, but 1 still find myself humming

that tuneless song when T'm walking.

30.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 35 ---

e Y


--- INICIO PÁGINA 36 ---

Re Sine Difficulty.

Extremel y Difficult

Intelligence

EYELINGS, DODOMEKI "“i:::

WARNING: Extremely Dangerous

“Dodomeki loosely translated as “thousand eyed
demons,” are powerful, brilliant, and legendarily cruel
aberrations that have long terrified and disgusted the
layman while fascinating adventurous wizards and
taxonomists, sometimes to the point of obsession.

As an adult, the Dodomeki appear as a fleshy sphere
approximately 8 feet (2.4 m) in diameter, with one side
dominated by a large central eye and mouth, lined with
long sharp teeth. Besides their central eye, they grow
numerous eyes from their heads on thick stalks that
constantly writhe and give them 360 degree vision.
The number of eyes and length of the eyestalks seem to
vary between dodomeki.

Hermaphroditic, they are capable of autogamy and
tend to reproduce once in their lifetimes, typically
between the ages of 40 and 120. After self-fertilization
occurs, there is a gestation period of 24 to 26 months,
during which time one of the dodomeki eyestalks
gradually grows and grows until it reaches twice the
size of a human head at the end of the pregnancy.
During the final stages of development, the eye in
question closes and detaches from the parent, resulting
in a newborn eyeling.

General Care

Most individuals who think about the dodomeki
usually think about how best to avoid them, rather
than potential companions. The rearing of a dodomeki
is a challenge, recommended only for the greatest
masters of the arcane arts. Even then, such rearing
should be undertaken only with the utmost caution
and care. If you are unfortunate or crazy enough to try
and rear an eyeling, heed the following experiences.
Dodomeki are omnivorous and can draw sustenance
from almost any organic matter, including the corpses
of unfortunate adventurers. They prefer bright
and colorful foods with interesting visual textures,
which is likely linked to their strong visual pallet.
Eyelings should be reared on a diet of live birds, small
mammals, and various edible plants and flowers. From
adolescence into adulthood, dodomeki take a liking to
the consumption of alcoholic spirits, particularly wine,

The average lifespan observed for a dodomeki is
around 200-250 years, yet some individuals and
legends claim to have surpassed 800 years.

32.

which they require in voluminous amounts to become
intoxicated. Its important to note that dodomeki do
not process food like most creatures; rather, they vomit
out a mass of gray, colorless, ashy matter when they are
done absorbing the essential nutrients.

Rearing

The idiosyncrasies of an eyeling's temperament and
personality are a great challenge—some might say
“threat”—to a potential caretaker. Any time spent with
their parent is singularly focused on magical research,
theory, and practice, and nothing else. One theory is
that after years of focusing on teaching the basics of
arcane lore to the eyeling the parent selfishly desires to
return to its own, more advanced research.

Early socialization is key to befriending a wild
eyeling. Put bluntly, the younger you can get one, the
better. Just remember when you first approach an
eyeling, it is probably just as disgusted and scared of
your “bizarre and frightful” appearance as you are of
its, so be sure to adopt a submissive posture and avoid
making too much eye contact.

The dodomeki have a natural genius for spellcasting
and have often learned numerous minor spells by the
time they reach adulthood. Without hands to perform
the intricate gestures required for most casting, they
gravitate to spells that are composed of the words of
magic, only later developing techniques to overcome
gestural casting components.

Born with an innate fascination for spells, magical
devices, and magical power of all kinds that only grows
with age, gifts of interesting and unique magic items
can help accomplish some level of friendship, or at least
help you be recognized as a source of interesting gifts.
In addition, personally providing it with lessons in
arcane theory and spellcraft, with access to spellbooks
of increasing complexity, is a good incentive for
growing dodomeki to remain intellectually stimulated.

As they reach adulthood, they tend to become
more self-centered, reclusive, and secretive, leading
some to outright paranoia and insanity as they rove
further afield in search of magical items and spells
worthy of their interest. For these reasons, we strongly
recommend that you allow it to go its own way, rather
than restricting its movement. If you see it again, it
may remember you fondly from its childhood years.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 37 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 38 ---

Rearing Difficult
Tricky Y
Intelligence
Instinctual

GELATINOUS CUBELET - :::

The gelatinous cube is the kind of creature that
spurs debate among wizards and philosophers

over the nature of life. They eat, grow, and move
toward food, but are they truly alive? These large,
translucent oozes seem to possess only the most
basic of drives.

One thing's for certain, a gelatinous cube is
ravenous. The average gelatinous cube will eat
around 50 lbs of food per day. A malnourished cube
will slowly shrink, eventually drying out and dying.
Most stabilize in size at around 10 ft in size, but well
fed gelatinous cubes have been found up to twice
that width.

General Care

Harvesting a cubelet is a simple matter for the
experienced beastmaster. One merely needs to find a
large cube, and carve off a chunk at least 1 cubic foot
(0.03 m?) using a non-reactive material. I have found
my platinum-plated blade works well, though one
dedicated cubist of my acquaintance has a special

set of glass harvesting blades she commissioned
specifically for the task. Once harvested, assuming
you can fend off the donor, drop the cubelet into

a square chest lined with organic material, I use
minced beef, and leave it to set for a few days. It will
naturally heal the wound that separated it from the
larger cube in this time, and emerge ready to grow.

In their natural environment, cubelets wander
dungeons and tunnels, and encounter enough traps
laid for unfortunate adventurers that the population
of cubelets is maintained. I have seen a cube slide
unperturbed down a corridor filled with scything
blades, and come out the other end as twenty seven
new cubelets.

While growing to maturity, it's a good idea to keep
the cubelet in a well-mortared run with plenty of
damp places for it to maintain a healthy slime. Like
snails they use their inner liquid reserves to create

a trail for them to slide across the ground, but being
highly acidic it evaporates after only a few hours.
Distillations of this corrosive slime can be used to
pen a cubelet into a specific area if you can't putina
sealed stone run, as immature cubelets won't cross
the trail of an adult, unless it's of their donor cube in
which case they will naturally follow it. If you have
multiple cubelets, make sure you give them each a
damp, nutritious place to rest as they will eventually
absorb one another if forced to compete.

A common practice for gelatinous cube growers is
to sprinkle colored mineral dust into their cubes. The
normally translucent cubes become much easier to
spot, preventing the owner from being accidentally
paralyzed and eaten by their pet. Giving each cube a
unique color makes it much easier to tell them apart
as well.

Training
Gelatinous cubelets aren't so much trained as
directed. They are attracted to motion, but can sense
vibrations best when they are in a tunnel or a tube.
Gelatinous cubelets can smell a surprising distance,
so they will quickly find food left in their habitat.

A gelatinous cube tends to expand to the size of
its container if given sufficient food. Most become
cubes the size of the hallways they roam, but
creative caretakers have been known to keep “cubes”
in strange shaped containers, forming gelatinous
spheres, hexagons, or even stars.

Some cubists have taken to keeping their charges
in partially submerged areas, where they absorb
a lot of water and become more fluid. They can
then be trained to sit in water features such as
wells or fountains and appear like normal water,
until a creature drinks from it and the corrosive
paralytic sends them pitching headfirst into it to be
consumed.

One village thought it was a great idea to keep a
gelatinous cube in a pit to dispose of refuse. Each
night the village trash would be thrown into the
pit for clean, odorless disposal. This worked well
until the cube grew large enough to escape during
the night. The next morning the cube and half the
villagers were nowhere to be found.

Another ostentatious display 1 have seen

was a cubelet used as a Duchess' pet; she had
surrounded it with a cage of platinum wire
attached to a chain, and dropped glittering gems
into it to form a dazzling cube of conspicuous
wealth that would eat the fingers of any trying to
steal the jewels.

34.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 39 ---

sá <p



--- INICIO PÁGINA 40 ---

GNOLL CUB

Gnolls are predatory, nomadic humanoids who
make their home in vast plains and forests across
the world. A pack creature, the gnoll has earned

a frightening reputation as a vicious monster

who devours fallen foes and raids small towns

and outposts. Though considered by some to be a
primitive species, they have a highly complex pack
structure, and every member of the tribe has an
assigned role they must fulfil for the good of others.

Gnolls usually die of injuries received in conflict,
but a gnoll can live up to three to four decades. A
gnoll will take, on average, one to two mates in its
lifetime, and with each pregnancy lasting only five
months, a mother can birth to two to six cubs in a
single litter.

A gnoll mother is expected to keep hunting and
providing for the tribe within the first four months
of her pregnancy. Upon reaching the last month
she is allowed to rest in a communal den with other
mothers while the rest of the tribe picks up the
slack. Mothers receive the freshest and best cuts of
meat and the most water during their pregnancy.

Lost Whelps

Gnoll families are protective of their whelps, going
to great lengths to ensure they are well-fed and
protected. Lost whelps have a high mortality rate,
and those who would otherwise survive often perish
when adults are killed by predators or adventurers.
A gnoll whelp will latch on to strong parental figures
and seek their approval by catching small animals,
such as rodents and snakes, and presenting them to
its surrogate parent to show off its hunting skills.
As they grow, whelps will become more aggressive,
often settling their arguments by brawling. Raising
them among children of other species is difficult,
as their aggressive nature will eventually pit them
against children of civilized races, whose skins are
much thinner and nails blunter.

Rumor has it that several individuals have bred
gnolls in slavery as an attempt to civilize them and
uplift the species. These attempts have ultimately
failed as the traditions of civilization conflicts with
both the nature and culture of the gnoll.

36.

Rearing Difficulty

ricky
Intelligence
Civilized

General Care

Gnolls are omnivores, but their preferred dietary
staple is fresh meat. Poorer tribes unable to

find fresh meat will resort to eating carrion and
preserved meats, but this will cause them to lose fur
and muscle density, resulting in thin, sickly looking
creatures. Those who are able to maintain a steady
diet of fresh meat will have thick, luxurious coats
and will grow to larger size than their malnourished
brethren.

Studying the behavior of gnolls reveals that
their ears, tail, and lip movements can reveal their
emotions, even when they are trying to hide them.
Their tails will dip downward when they feel fear
or anxiety, and their ears will stretch back on their
head and lips curl into a snarl when they are feeling
anger, hatred, or rage. They do not wag their tails
but will fliick them back and forth when surprised or
when approaching a dominant creature.

Although looked upon as greedy and ravenous
for their preoccupation with food and gold, it is
actually a survival tactic. Growing up as hunters
teaches them to constantly seek out new food, and
not knowing where their next meal will come from
causes them anxiety.

Gnolls adhere to a pack structure, with the alpha
male overseeing the hunting activities, while
the matron, a spiritual guide, oversees all other
decisions of the pack. Next to hunting, gnolls
respect displays of dominance or ferocity. Those
attempting to hire gnolls as mercenaries or soldiers
need to show their dominance constantly, or the
gnolls will leave or, worse, turn on them.

Rearing

Raising a whelp has numerous benefits, as the
teacher can impart tactics and understanding of
the civilized world to the gnoll who can use that

to its advantage when dealing with society later

in life. Socializing gnolls can also make them

better mercenaries, as they are more capable of
understanding their employers. Devoted gnolls who
see their teacher as their pack leader will obey and
protect them from harm as best they can, and value
scraps from their meals as a sign of favour..


--- INICIO PÁGINA 41 ---

y

>


--- INICIO PÁGINA 42 ---

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence

GRIFFIN HATCHLING |

Griffins are majestic creatures that sport the head,
talons, and wings of giant eagles and the hindquarters
and ears of lions. Griffins (also spelled “gryphons” or
“griffons”) fly and lay eggs but when rearing chicks are
more like their leonine half.

Griffins use their front talons to rip apart prey and
manipulate their habitats. Their tufted ears are set
asymmetrically, to better enable a hunting griffin to
pinpoint prey that is heard but not seen. Their vision
is binocular and excellent in both dark and light. Their
thick fur allows them to live in very cold climates.

Griffin females have drab plumage and fur
coloring, while males are slightly smaller and have
bright, lustrous feathers. To attract a potential
mate, griffins engage in a complex and beautiful
mating flight. The male grifiin will initiate the flight,
performing acrobatic aerial maneuvers, showing off
his plumage. An interested female will then join the
flight, adding to the dance. A successful dance will
result in both parties matching each other flight for
flight, coming together in a thrilling synchronous
performance. At the completion of the dance, the
mated pair will search for a suitable home in which
they will build their family, and remain mated for life.

Griffins roost in eyries carved into high
mountaintops or sheer cliff faces. These eyries are
usually natural caverns, but they will use ruins or
abandoned dens if they are well placed. Griffins are
non-migratory, and will keep the same nest unless
circumstances force them to move.

A clutch produces an average of two offspring in mid-
winter, and a pair will mate only three or four times in
their life.

Egg Care

Griffin eggs are very sturdy, with thick shells that

can withstand extreme weather, and thus need little
attention. These eggs incubate for 40 days, and the
hatchlings emerge hungry and can walk within a

few minutes. Their hindquarters are bald but their
shoulders, heads, and wings are covered in a very soft
down.

Griffins are rumored to be able to tell truth from
lies and see through magical illusions. Many

believe that wearing or ingesting a griffin feather
or tooth will bestow upon them the same ability.

38.

Clever

General Care

Have blended raw meat ready for new hatchlings, to
emulate the premasticated nourishment delivered to
the babies by their mother. Newly-hatched griffins will
almost always imprint on the first face they see upon
emerging from their shells, so be ready when you hear
the scratching start.

Hatchlings eat a staggering amount of raw meat,
and must be fed at least five times a day, eating twice
their body weight daily in the first year of life. Itis also
important to mix bones, fur and stomach contents in
with the meat to supplement their diet.

Hatchlings prefer to sleep in enclosed spaces —
setting out a blanket-lined crate will entice a young
griffin to make a small nest in that area. One should
clean a hatchling's nest weekly, while the young griffin
is otherwise engaged in hunting or play.

Training
While an imprinted hatchling may be more inclined
to friendly behavior toward their surrogate family,
they are still predators. Young griffins, or gryphlets,
require a lot of stimulation in the form of play once
they fledge. After this, they will be more inclined to
explore their hunting instincts, and may grow restless.
Experienced falconers may find it enjoyable to use a
lure to play with a gryphlet, but one should not ever
jess or hood them, as they will respond with extreme
panic and aggression. Toys designed to look like small
prey can also be attached to lines and rods, to facilitate
the stalking and pouncing part of a grifin's hunting
regimen.

Developing a lasting bond requires plenty of
handling. 1 highly recommend that a caretaker cuddle
and stroke their hatchling as often as possible, to
emulate the grifin parents” protective affection with
their young. Once the claws and beak grow sharp, I
then recommend falconer's gloves and other robust
gear, to protect against playful kneading and nipping.

Young griffins reach adolescence at one year. They
may become rebellious and wish to range farther afield
for their hunting; it is advisable to let them explore
to give them a sense of the large territory their wild
cousins maintain.

A gryphlet reaches maturation around its second
year. If you wish to keep your companion, it is best to
see them mated and provide them with an eyrie or they
will grow despondent.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 43 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 44 ---

HIPPOCAMPUS FRY

The hippocampus is a rare breed of sea creature with
the upper body of a horse and lower body of a fish.
They have two legs and two back fins, and females
have a set of wings similar to that of a pegasus, but
more akin to fins in structure. They are born via live
birth underwater and measure 3 feet (1 m) long and
weigh around 30 pounds (13.6 kg). The breeding cycle
of the hippocampus is based on seasonal weather
changes. During the colder seasons, hippocampi enter
an underwater hibernation period, during which they
survive without oxygen for long periods, only rising
to breathe when there is no ice over the water or when
the temperature becomes that of a cold glacial lake.

When they do rise from the water after hibernation,
they begin their mating rituals. The female
hippocampus, or mare, is the flamboyant one and will
perform a dance, flapping her wings and swimming
in an intricate pattern under the water. The males, or
stallions, observe and then follow the desirable mare
in her dance. However, the hippocampus couples
mate seasonally and do not remain with individual
partners beyond a single season. The foals are born
in the summer season after nearly four months
gestation.

The stallions are the carrier and bearer of the fry,
keeping the eggs in a small pouch on their stomachs,
where the fish part of their body begins, much like
the mundane seahorse. As the hippocampi only have
single births, and rarely twins, this is not so much of a
chore, and both fry and stallion mortality is rare.

General Care

As itis an aquatic creature, you must ensure that

the hippocampus has a sizable body of water to
swim about, explore, and develop in. Fortunately,
hippocampi osmoregulate, so they can thrive in both
freshwater and saltwater environments, making

The hippocampus fry is attracted to fire coral,
typically biting off small pieces and grinding itin
its mouth. They will naturally deviate if they spot
a patch of this toxic growth, though hippocampi
seem to have adapted to the toxin and are happily
unaffected, unlike their handlers. A small amount
adds healthy lustre to their scales.

Rearing Difficulty
ricky
Intelligence
lever

site selection far easier than it is for other aquatic
creatures. Fry need a regular diet of kelp or algae and
minnows or sardines, depending on their location
and breed. If near rivers, they will find a hard time
resisting swimming to catch fish, so a watchful eye
must be kept on them during this time.

It is important to note that the temperament of the
hippocampus will vary depending on what breed it
came from. Those from the southern tropical islands
are typically hot-tempered and are quick to anger
or excite and easily fall into bad habits like biting or
stomping. Breeds from the northern fjords are docile
but can fall into deep depressions if they are not well
cared for and do not have regular salt baths.

Training
Training a hippocampus is very similar to training a
mundane horse, with the exception that all training
is conducted in water. Regular lunging (sprinting
in a long line) is required. It is also necessary to
teach diving, which can be done with dense, bright
objects that the fry can retrieve from various depths.
Without this training, they will be averse to leaving
their comfort zones. When training the fry to bear a
rider, begin by strapping a potato sack or something
of a similar weight onto its back and tie it in place,
then place it on a lunge line. Repeat this every other
week until there is no resistance, then increase the
load over time until they can handle the weight of a
person. This normally takes about three months and
should not begin before the age of two.

. ul
The most successful hippocampus trainers are
the nomadic merfolk circus troupe, the “Carnival
of Deep Stars”. Through dedication, breeding
and constant training they have a dozen or more
hippocampi who can perform tricks that would
put any land cavalry to shame. They also take
advantage of their watery domain to conduct
complex formations and manoeuvres in all
dimensions, breathtaking to behold. The acts are
most entertaining, and well worth throwing a
few coins to the waters. Other beastmasters have
dismissed their skill as crass Monster Charming
or possession magics, but one look in the eye of
those beasts and 1 could tell it was well-drilled and

L hard-earned effort.

40.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 45 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 46 ---

KIRIN FOAL

Few people have ever seen the kirin or qilin and
lived, not because the creatures are violent but
because they serve the gods as psychopomps,
delivering favoured mortals to the divine realms
upon their death. Those lucky few who have seen and
not passed speak of a creature of immense power
and strange abilities, having the head of a dragon,

a flowing lion mane, the antlers of an elk, armored
scales, a long tail, and the body of a horse, all encased
in a magical flame that only burns the unworthy.

Kirin do not reside naturally on the mortal plane.
Rather, they are denizens of the Astral and magical
planes. If one were to come to care for a kirin foal, one
must possess incredible magical abilities not limited
to dimensional and planar travel, as well as a saintly
demeanour and probably the blessing of at least one
good god, just to be safe.

Born in a manner similar to mortal horses, kirin
mature in only 12 months, growing to their full size,
strength, and abilities. They are clearly intelligent
creatures, and speak telepathically when they need
to, which is rarely. Otherwise they are strangely silent
creatures, moving with quiet dignity and purpose.

It is important to understand the role kirin fill. They
act as the heralds, messengers and couriers of the
gods of goodness, magic and life. Most importantly,
when a mortal of particular grace and value to these
gods is about to pass from this world, the kirin is
sent to safely ferry them through the underworld and
bring their reincarnated souls to their new body. A
kirin foal's entire existence is based on learning these
important jobs.

A note of caution: As the kirin are messengers of
the gods, they do not take the harming of innocents
lightly. They do not even tread upon the ground so as
to avoid harming even a single blade of grass. Their
wrath for those who are evil is quick, hot, and final.

El L

Several tomes of magical wisdom contain a story
of an unnamed land where a master wizard raised
a single kirin foal planning to harvest its parts
when it reached maturity. The retribution visited
upon the wizard and the region by the gods was
so complete that everything but the story of its
destruction was removed from existence. Not even
a memory or name remain.
ul e

42.

Rearing Difficulty
Variable

Intelligence
Intelligent

General Care

As said before, only the most skilled masters of
magic should attempt to care for a kirin foal. Mystic
theurges have had the most success in the care of
kirin, probably because of their understanding of
both the mystical and holy nature of the kirin. Kirin
foals are never found in the wild, and only appear as
gifts from the gods, so to be chosen to raise one is a
great honor.

While adult Kirin do not require sustenance, foals
will occasionally consume pure magical energy,
naturally magical materials or those crafted into a
magical item.

The housing of a kirin foal is incredibly important.
Every part of a kirin is highly prized by the
unscrupulous for its intensely magical properties.

A secure compound with plenty of mundane and
magical protection is necessary, and usually only
established churches or monastic orders have the
moral fortitude and facilities to provide suitable
agistment. Wars have been fought over a single kirin's
scale. Secrecy may be the best protection for a kirin
foal, so a stable that is guarded against scrying and
dimensional travel is important. Kirin need to run
and fly, so enchanting an entire region or perhaps a
secret pocket dimension against scrying is considered
obligatory when preparing to take on such a sacred
duty.

Rearing

Basic training of a kirin foal is important so that they
may carry the worthy on their backs. Thus, training
them to carry a person on their back while flying and
eventually traveling to various dimensions should be
a top priority.

Travel across all dimensions and visiting the various
gods of magic, life, and goodness is important to
familiarize the kirin with its role. It is especially
important that the kirin visit the realms of the dead
at least once before it is fully mature, usually after
10 months. It is important to make sure the kirin
foal is not injured or harmed at any time during
these trips, as their blood is magical and can cause
serious, powerful, and chaotic events when it touches
anything.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 47 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 48 ---

KITSUNE PUP

Are they beautiful women or men who wander
through the forest looking to help those in need?
Or are they magical white foxes with nine tails who
protect the lost and sacred places within a wood?

It's difficult to categorize the mysterious kitsune
(otherwise known as the nine-tailed fox). Some
believe them to be powerful witches or warlocks
with access to rare spells. Some believe them to be a
breed of fox that was altered with powerful magics.
Others consider them spirits related to fertility,
magic, prosperity, and feminine myth. Whatever they
truly are, they live in a symbiotic relationship with
humanoids and wield incredible power.

T have discovered a common thread in tales of the
kitsune. An unfortunate, lone man or woman in need,
whether recovering from a failed harvest, caring for
children, or defeating enemies, meets a beautiful and
mysterious person of the opposite sex. The ways they
meet are myriad, from a night's stay in a lonely shrine
to a fancy costume party. Usually, the unfortunate
individual or those who know them will see a fox
before meeting the mysterious stranger, but not
always.

The couple fall in love, and as if through a blessing
of fate, their own or even their entire village or clan's
fortunes improve. The kitsune bears or fathers at
least one child. The kitsune's goal is to always raise
one child, usually a daughter, who is also a nine-tailed
fox. If the kitsune's spouse is kind, they will stay with
their spouse even after the child is grown, but if their
spouse is cruel or indifferent, when their child is old
enough, they will leave, and their spouse's fortunes
will turn for the worse. Loving couples sometimes
grow old and die together, their grown children
having left home to bring great fortune to others.

El L

A kitsune's pelt and nine fox tails are prized

by unscrupulous hunters, collectors, and
practitioners of dark magic. The pelt and tails are
luxurious, soft, and desired as cloaks. Practitioners
of dark magic believe that the coat and tails can

be used in a secret ritual to turn the one wearing
the coat into a kitsune themselves. No such ritual
is confirmed to exist, but this does not stop the
hunting of kitsune.

44.

Rearing Difficult
Tricky Y
Intelligence
Civilized

General Care

Kitsune pups are born from their humanoid mother
in humanoid form, and in most cases the pup is
female appearing as the same humanoid race as their
parents . When they are roughly three years of age,
they gain the ability to transform into their fox form.
Legend says that some kitsune females will only
spend one evening with a mate and then transform
into their fox form and leave for the deep forest

to whelp pups born as foxes who transform into
humans.

Raising a kitsune child is much like raising a child
and an excitable puppy at the same time— a child
and puppy that can shapeshift and use magic! It is
important to nurture and care for them as any loving
parent would, but keep a close eye on them, as they
are prone to mischief and their curiosity will often get
the better of them. Living near a forest or in a rural
area is prefered so that the pup can learn to transform
and use their abilities away from prying eyes.

Rearing

Rearing a kitsune pup has many benefits and
difficulties, and an adult kitsune is always preferred,
as the extent of their abilities is not fully known. If
no adult kitsune is available, then a person of magical
ability is the next best thing in helping a kitsune
pup. As any humanoid child, they can be instructed
but their ability to transform into a fox, alter their
appearance and teleport makes it difficult to keep
track of an unruly or upset pup unless magical
measures are taken to track the child.

When the pup enters puberty, many changes take
place both physically and magically. They gain a deep
desire to travel, and their magical abilities Ñlourish.
Among kitsune, it is traditional that the adolescent
travels to another village or city in the same region
to help the locals there and master their skills. When
enough time has passed, the kitsune will return home
and undergo a secretive ritual to become a true adult.
The new adult emerges and leaves home on a year-
long journey. Many meet a person in need during
these journeys and the cycle begins anew.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 49 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 50 ---

KOBOLD KID

Witting and wily creatures, kobolds are natural
thieves and scouts. They're intelligent, which means
they must be raised differently than other beasts, but it
also means they are highly capable. Although they are
small of stature and weak of frame compared to many
humanoids, 1 would caution against underestimating
them; if you do they may surprise you, but you may not
like what you get.

Full-grown kobolds aren't much larger than halflings
and their babies are significantly smaller. They grow
up quick, though; kobolds reach maturity in just a few
short years. This means adult kobolds may only have
as much life experience as a five-year-old human, but
their cunning intellect make them far more clever
and devious. Kobolds have a deserved reputation as
tricksters, scoundrels and cutthroats, but a baby reared
away from kobold society has the capacity to be raised
into an upstanding (if immature) citizen.

When two kobolds mate it's usually a union of
passing interest rather than life-long commitment.
Females lay a clutch of three to five fertilized eggs,
then wander off to let them fend for themselves. Most
kobold mothers are only a few years old themselves
and are hardly mature enough to care for their young,
so they let nature have its way and if the children find
their way back into kobold society then so much the
better. Many kobold kids don't make it past hatching,
but because female kobolds are capable of laying eggs
every three months they usually wind up with enough
survivors to keep the species going.

Egg Care

Although kobold mothers make basic attempts to
hide a clutch of eggs, it's relatively simple to find an
unattended nest if you're near kobold territory. There
are usually dozens of nests at any time of year, so it's
a trivial matter to wander in and grab any egg you see
lying around.

The egg itself requires very maintenance and will
hatch about a month after being laid. As long as you
keep the egg safe from predators and resist the urge
to make kobold omelettes (trust me, they're not very
delicious) you'll have a new baby kobold in no time. Do
note that a kobold's coloration will vary dependent on
the egg's temperature, ranging from reds and oranges
in warm seasons to blues and purples in the cold.

46.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Intelligent

General Care

For the first four years of their lives, kobolds have
insatiable appetites. They grow rapidly and their
metabolisms are among the fastest in the humanoid
world, so it's important to keep a large stock of food

on hand. Thankfully kobold kids will eat just about
anything--they're omnivorous scavengers, but prefer to
eat meat when available.

If left untempered, kobold kids develop mischievous
and conniving personalities. This makes it difficult to
train them unless you teach them early on who is boss.
I don't recommend punishing them for misbehaving
since that typically leads to them rebelling even more.
Instead, try to use positive reinforcement for the first
several years until you've formed a relationship and can
rest assured they won't booby trap your commode.

Once you have formed a bond with your kobold, it's
important to continue to take care of them and groom
them--both physically and emotionally. Kobolds as a
species don't often form lasting bonds with anyone,
so take care to ensure they want to be around you. By
offering them food and occasional affection, you can
earn and maintain the kobold's trust and desire to stick
around. After that, it's a lot easier to raise them as your

helper.
Training

Most caretakers are unsuccessful at teaching the kid
any tricks until it is at least two years old. During the
first few years the kobold is growing, learning how to
walk and talk, and learning how to avoid getting into
things (or how to avoid getting caught getting into
things).

Kobolds, despite most accounts, are intelligent
creatures capable of speech and conversation. They're
also capable of swimming, climbing, skulking, and
trapmaking, the latter being a natural kobold talent
and a skill you can't teach most other beasts. Because
they are so adept at being sneaky and cunning, most
beast masters who raise kobolds employ their pets as
scouts and dungeon guardians.

If you are adept at magic and have the patience,
you may be able to teach your kobold a few spells. Be
careful which spells you show it, though--1 once knew a
wizard who taught his kobold how to cast fireball and,
well, let's just say he never lived to like the results. 1
have, however, met many others who have had success
teaching their kobold invisibility and lockpicking spells.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 51 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 52 ---

LEVIATHAN, LITTLE

Distinguished by its serpentine body and draconic-
shaped head set with frills, the leviathan is the largest
known creature of the seas. The nightmare and terror
of all mariners, the leviathan can grow to lengths
upward of 350 feet (107 m). The leviathan is its own
sole predator - if there is anything larger 1 would
prefer not to meet it. As with other large predators,
the leviathan does not tolerate others of its species
sharing the same territory except during the breeding
season. This aggressive behaviour also extends to large
boats sailing overhead, as these can be mistaken for
large threats or potential prey, earning the creature its
fearsome reputation.

During the mating season, leviathans congregate in
warmer waters, though they will not venture too far
toward the shore due to their immense size and the
risk of beaching. At this time, the frills on the male
turn into a dazzling display of bright colours, which
they use to attract the attention of a potential mate.
When a male has a female's attention, he will swim
slowly around her, displaying the frills. If the female is
impressed, the pair will mate, and the female will leave
while the male repeats the display with another female.

Gestation last several months, ending in the live
birth of between five and seven young. The mother
eats any that are small or weak. The young then spend
several months with their mother as they learn to hunt
for themselves. Once the little leviathans reach their
first year, they are left to fend for themselves, typically
the most dangerous parts of their lives as they must
avoid other leviathans and creatures they have not yet
outgrown.

General Care

Itis possible to rear and train a leviathan, though 1
have never done so myself. The merfolk claim that in
the last age a hero named “Mychelleus” captured a baby
leviathan and trained it as his aquatic mount. I have
copied down here all I gleaned from their tales, but if
anyone manages to raise one successfully please let me
know!

Space is the most difficult thing for rearing a
leviathan; if you get it early enough, you can isolate it
in a cavern pool or submerged structure where you can
spend quality time with the creature. In the wild they
prefer fatty foods such as seals and whales, though T'm

48.

Rearing Difficulty
Extremely Difficult

Intelligence
Clever

sure theyd eat cattle if that is more easily available.

While a leviathan will not need any regular grooming,
l am told the creature's scales must be regularly
checked for aquatic parasites, as well as wear and tear.
A leviathan will deal with grooming through the shoal
of cleaner fish they usually attract early in their lives,
but a captive leviathan must be provided with these by
the beastmaster. Any barnacles found on the creature's
body do not need to be removed unless large areas are
covered with them, impeding the creature's ability to
swim.

Training
Feeding before training is important so they don't see
you as food, but not so much that they no longer pay
attention to treats. Start with a few seals, and offer
giant turtles as rewards; the extra crunch is also good
for keeping teeth sharp.

As they grow you will need some sort of coaxing
mechanism for it to return to you. Familiarize the
beast with a customized scent released into the water
at meal times, or an underwater horn call you only use
for feeding.

Establishing dominance over such enormous
creatures may appear challenging, but they are
impressionable at an early age and judicious use of
Giant Growth potions and spells will enable you to
convince your leviathan that you are large and in
charge. The ability to breathe underwater and swim
quickly is essential to training a leviathan as it will
spend most of its time beneath the surface. With
enough patience and rewards, a leviathan can be
trained to recognise a large variety of signals, from
light flashes to clicking sounds, to prodding sensitive
areas around the eyes, corners of the mouth or behind

the frill.

¡ L

Although the leviathan is primarily found in seas
and oceans, a rare subspecies has adapted to living
in freshwater lakes and lochs. These creatures
have a calmer demeanour than their saltwater
cousins, and the young often fetch a good price

on the black market. As a result, they have been
driven close to extinction and now only occupy the
deepest and most isolated places.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 53 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 54 ---

MANTICORE CUB

The manticore is an awesome creature, ideally suited
to its role as an apex predator. In form, the manticore
is a muscular, leonine feline with razor-sharp

teeth and claws. To this already formidable arsenal
the beast adds a venomous scorpion-like tail and
enormous, leathery wings.

The manticore employs a range of strategies in
hunting for prey, adapting as necessary for different
quarry. Their first approach when dealing with
unfamiliar prey is to swoop from the air, seize it in
a death grip with its claws and fangs, and sting it
repeatedly until it stops struggling, an effective yet
brutal method.

Manticores are solitary beasts. Each male claims a
large territory which he defends aggressively against
intrusion by other males. On occasion, this results
in a fight to the death, if the intruder is unwilling
or unable to retreat. Manticore matrons do not
claim territory but instead hunt widely for prey and
potential mates. When a matron enters a male's
territory, he ritually challenges her, testing her mettle
before either yielding to her or trying to drive her off.
After he yields, the matron will remain in his territory
for a few days or weeks, hunting with him and testing
him with bouts of combat. If the matron decides that
the male is a worthy mate, she pounces, bites off his
stinger, and breeds with him. On completion of the
act, she paralyses the male with her venom and then
devours him.

Claiming the male's territory for her own while
she bears her cubs, the matron aggressively defends
it against intrusion. After a six-month gestation
period she typically gives birth to two to four cubs,
half of which are likely to die before becoming
adults. Manticores are always to be feared, but this is
especially true of a matron who is guarding her cubs.
She will viciously and relentlessly attack any perceived
threat with little concern for her own safety. Once
the cubs are around 1 year old, their mother leaves
to resume her peregrinations, taking any female cubs
with her and leaving the males to fend for themselves.
The males fight among themselves for her abandoned
territory, and the losers are driven off to find their
own place in the world or killed. After another few
months, the matron separates from her female cubs,
leaving them to begin their own journeys.

50.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated
Intelligence
Clever

General Care

Many beastmasters have tried to breed manticores
in captivity, but very few have succeeded. Let their
bloody, tattered remains stand as an object lesson to
those of us with more sense. Manticore matrons are
far deadlier than the male of the species, and even

if you succeed in keeping one captive for a time, the
best you can hope for is that she will kill and eat any
males you offer to her. The worst you might expect is
left as an exercise for the reader.

It is far safer and easier to capture male manticores
from the wild at a very young age. While they are
still potent predators (being at least the size of a
lion and far more dangerous thanks to their wings
and venomous tail) their inexperience makes them
relatively easy to catch with nets or pit traps.

Manticores require a steady diet of raw meat to
survive, and to thrive they must be allowed to hunt
live prey. They get a taste for whatever they are fed in
their formative years, as a king who fed his manticore
with condemned prisoners discovered to his fatal
dismay.

Manticores are fiercely territorial and fly into a
violent rage if something invades their space or
they are forced out of it. However, a beast that has
been acclimated from youth to a small enclosure will
contentedly treat this as his entire territorial range.

Building a positive relationship with a manticore
cub is largely a matter of staying out of his way and
making him regular offerings of food; in this way,
the process closely resembles that of bonding with a
house cat.

Training
Some say that manticores are completely untrainable,
and l agree to a point. The best you can hope for is
to condition the cub, through repetitive stimulation,
to preferentially devour victims who are wearing a
particular colour or uniform.

The manticore's habit of killing and eating anything
that enters his territory makes him an excellent
guard animal. However the indiscriminate nature
of his predation makes the manticore better suited
to guarding an isolated vault rather than the walled
gardens of a sultan's palace.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 55 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 56 ---

MIMICLING

“Mimics resemble blobs of goo when they are between
shapes. Most often, they assume the form of simple
wooden, stone, or metal structures, depending upon
their breed. Those could be chests, typical doors,

a park bench, a footstool, or other items that are
comparably sized to the creatures. On rare occasions,
they join forces to comprise larger structures such as
sheds, cave entrances, or keep gates.

Their demeanor is as varied as any other species.
Some are friendly, while others are vicious. One might
pull humorous pranks as another sets itself up as a
trap. Having little need for language, it is the unusual
mimic that bothers fashioning vocal chords and an
orifice for speech, much less learns languages, but they
do exist and can be reasoned with.

Courtships involve displays of mimicry by both
parties and may last for months, until the pair has
decided they've made the right choice of mates.

At that point, they join indistinguishably as one
in their amorphous state. They tend to find a safe
place to shelter during the weeklong process. Any
interruptions result in a violent response to the
culprit.

Since mimics don't always live in close proximity
to one another, they may also reproduce asexually,
temporarily exhibiting characteristics of both male
and female specimens. The process doubles in time and
results in the same violent response if interrupted.

Regardless of reproductive method, the impregnated
mimic carries the unborn mimicling for three months.
During that time, it limits its mimicry to protect
the young. The mimicling may be carried by either
the mother or the father. In the case of asexual
reproduction, the offspring will be identical to the
parent. Otherwise, it will have traits from both.

Most often, mimics of like type will mate. However,
there are the occasional hybrids as a result of
heterogeneous pairings, the most common being
those with the ability to mimic wood and stone, those
able to mimic stone and metal, or like hybrid pairs.

When the mimic is at full term, it seeks a hiding
spot that offers shelter from the elements, noise, and

would-be predators. Labor lasts two to six hours and
may be safeguarded by other mimics in the vicinity.

52.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Intelligent

General Care

Newborn mimics require water and protein found in
worms, beetles, and other invertebrates. They simply
absorb them into their goo, having no mouth. They eat
one-quarter their weight in food and drink one-half
their weight in water each day in this stage.

When they reach 4 weeks of age, they have doubled
in size and begin developing a mouth, nose, and eyes.
Their nutritional needs double as well, and they begin
attempting to mimic shapes during this phase.

In the third growth phase, lasting four months,
mimiclings continue to eat and drink in the same
quantities as the second phase, but they are able
to eat small vertebrates, such as mice, birds, and
snakes, as well as invertebrates. Their ability to feed
by absorption diminishes, necessitating the use of
their newly forming mouths. Simultaneously, its eyes
become apparent.

It isn't until they reach their year-long fourth phase,
akin to the human teenage phase, that they can begin
to eat larger animals and cannot be sustained by the
average quantity of invertebrates. They require three-
quarters their weight in food daily, and their water
needs lessen to the same rate. During the course of
growth, they become adept with many basic mimicry
techniques. They reach adulthood at a year and a half.

Mimiclings are naturally curious and patient. If
introduced to others of various species within their
first three phases, the chance of befriending them
and socializing with them is high. However, like most
beings, they can discern emotions and aren't given to
tolerate poor treatment.

Training
A mimicling is inclined to attempt to take the shape of
those things in the world around it. Its first attempts
at mimicry generally are to replicate the shape of its
parent. When the perceived parent is of a different
species, it's not uncommon for a mimicling to shape
itself into a wooden-looking shoe or stone-looking
arm.

If you allow the mimicling in its goo state to envelop
an appendage, it will learn that shape much faster
than by just trying to mirror it. Be careful not to allow
it to stay on your skin for more than an hour, as the
enzymes its body uses for various processes can cause
irritation or rash.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 57 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 58 ---

MINOTAUR CALF

Standing at 9 feet (3 m) tall, covered in short fur and
bearing the head of a cow or bull the minotaur is a
fearsome, but commonly misunderstood, creature.
During the rise of the Taurus constellation, the bull
Minotaur will pursue the cow Minotaur, navigating
her labyrinth by the light of the stars to locate his
mate before the stars have set.

The gestation period of the minotaur averages 10
months. Born live, the calves are fully formed and
respond naturally to stimuli. The minotaur adults
will remain as a pair, nurturing the calf until it is of
an age (approximately 4 years) to survive on its own.
Minotaur calves mature at a similar rate to bovines,
growing quickly, but their lifespan is more akin to
humans. Once a calf reaches the age of maturity, they
are placed in the center of their mother's labyrinth
and must navigate themselves out before they are
considered adults.

Constellations and the stars are very important
to the minotaur. As they grow, they are taught the
secrets of the stars and how to understand and
decipher their meanings. Some might say there is
magic in their way of dealing with the stars, with
their unnatural abilities to navigate, predict, and
comprehend stellar movements and events. A
minotaur calf is named after the star it is born under
until it has reached the age of maturity, and then
it chooses a constellation under which it will live,
guiding its life with the stars, and renames itself.

Minotaurs possess an ability to navigate with
the stars, to predict oncoming weather and stellar
events, and extreme prowess in battle. They also have
unwavering dedication to solving puzzles. When
presented with a puzzle, the minotaur must solve
it or experience a wave of depression. When solved,
however, the minotaur is rejuvenated. Minotaurs
navigate labyrinths with particular ease, and calves
are no exception. Without this skill, the minotaur
calves would likely not survive their early years living
in the labyrinth of their mothers. This skill also helps
them to protect themselves once they have built their
own labyrinth or assumed the labyrinth of their fallen
parents.

54.

Rearing Difficult
Tricky Y
Intelligence
Civilized

General Care

Minotauxs are strictly vegetarian and do not eat

any meat. This is contrary to some tales of them
devouring adventurers in a bestial fashion. If
presented with meat as their only option, minotaurs
will refuse the food even unto starvation. Bull calves
and some cow calves will develop horns that must be
regularly sharpened and filed to avoid overgrowth.

A minotaur's fur must be cleaned on a regular basis,
otherwise it will be tangled and caked with mud and
dirt. Bathing is recommended. Most minotaur calves
do not mind these baths and will accept them with
pleasure. Minotaur calves are especially stubborn as
they reach the age of maturity, but they are docile
until approximately age 3. They are easy to work
with and teach new skills. However, it is important
to remember that minotaurs are sentient creatures
with their own needs and desires. Treating them with
respect is vital, for they can easily turn on those who
would desire to control them, and an angry minotaur
is not easily calmed.

Rearing

Puzzle play is at the core of raising a healthy and sane
minotaur calf. Even more so than human toddlers
they quickly grasp any toy that involves geometry,
and once verbal some take this cleverness into
wordplay and riddles, though mazes remain their
first love. I have had great success building small
labyrinths out of wooden blocks and, later, teaching
calves gardening with hedge mazes (which they enjoy
even more if the hedges are edible). Be prepared too
for many late nights stargazing and watching stellar
events with your calf, and answering their slow but
thoughtful questions about the world.

For good health and stimulus, hide a salt lick
somewhere in a maze for them to find, and move it
often.

Minotaur horns ate widely prized on the black
market, and a full skull can go for a sizeable bounty.
Some cultutes perceive minotaurs as wise observets,
capable of living in peace while in close proximity to
their mazes. This typically comes from a deep-rooted
respect for the minotaur and would probably move
people to protect the minotaur if anything threatened

them.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 59 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 60 ---

NIGHTMARE COLT

Nightmares are intelligent equines with thick black
coats, shining hooves that strike sparks with every
step, and manes and tails made of black flames. The
front hooves end in talon-like toes, and nightmares
have pronounced fangs, such as their elongated
canine teeth. Smoke issues from their nostrils in
accordance with the strength of their emotions, and
they are reputed to give off noticeable heat if touched.
Nightmares live in small family groups upon
the plains of Hell. As even the nine levels of Hell
experience seasons, every three years, the vast
plains dry out and turn a deep shade of orange.
Here, nightmare stallions begin courting females,
creating complex patterns and paths of fire in the
fields for the females” delight. Once a mate is selected
and consummation is achieved in the usual equine
fashion, the mare begins to swell with the pregnancy
while the stallion gathers food and protects her. After
three months, the mare gives birth to a single small
egg covered in a glittering layer of ash. The stallion
digs a hole for the egg, and it glows with a lava-like
heat once seated. The stallion and mare share turns
gathering food, protecting each other, and caring for
their egg. After six months, the egg hatches, and a
nightmare colt emerge. It nurses on the boiling milk
from its mother as well as regurgitated grass from
its father's mouth, and it is able to walk shortly after
birth. Its coat is the same orange as the grasses of
the hellish plains, and the colt will curl up in a hollow
while its parents hunt, blending in perfectly with the
ground.

General Care

Although colts are vegetarians, most adult
nightmares primarily consume meat from the small
demons that populate the infernal plains in rabbit-

Ml L

Nightmares thrive on theit native plane of Hell but
can survive on most non-aquatic planes. They prefer
beds of dty grass and seem amused at their handler's
panic when said beds are set aflame when they lay
down. Their front hooves are very much sought after
on the black market, as gloves can be fashioned from
them allowing the weater to inflict nightmares on any
person whose blood is smeared on the talons.

56.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Intelligent

like burrows. Demon marrow is a delicacy to them,
and can be used as a reward in limited amounts. They
use their clawed front hooves to dig the creatures
from the ground, so burying imps for them to find
can be made into a play activity, while tossing them

a quasit before a good rub-down will endear you
immensely.

Grooming is accomplished with their sandpaper-
like tongue. As a sign of affection, it is usually only
practiced among family groups. Nightmares are
standoffish toward others of their own kind; it can
take several seasons for a couple to come together.
They are aggressively violent toward humanoids, and
they openly mock other four-legged creatures.

Rearing

The overwhelming challenge in taking on a Nightmare
colt is that your beast is, instinctively, a demonic
predator who invades sleep and thrives on terror. This
is not a business to be entered lightly, and you should
be prepared either to put down the creature if it
shows resistance to control training, or be prepared to
accept the death and mayhem your charge will cause.

That said, even these denizens of Hell respond to a
kind word and positive reinforcement. If captured or
found very young, while still vegetarian, nightmares
can be trained as companions and mounts. Make the
transition to their adult meat diet with large amounts
of fish and poultry, so that its hunger is not first
sated with mammal meat. If you are sure enough of
your state of mind, sleep close to the stable and let
the foal's inclination to delve into dreams find you
waiting, with the same patient kindness you show
while awake. Nightmares learn to be aware of their
effect on others” dreams, and while wild nightmares
will relish the fear they cause, tame nightmares can
learn to tread cautiously and leave a mind merely
uneasy and disturbed. There is no known way to
prevent the fear effect entirely, which is why they are
so often employed as weapons to ruin morale. They
are intelligent enough to be soothed if convinced that
they are giving their nightmares to “bad people” and
can be taught a simple sense of justice.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 61 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 62 ---

OWLBEAR CUBS

Jtis believed owlbears began as freakish creations of
a wizard experimenting with animal hybridization.
They intended to create a winged bear to fly into
battle, but the creature's bones were not hollow.

One owlbear pair escaped the wizard's tower, and
while spellcaster was never heard from again, their
creations are now a common sight in the deep forests
of the world.

Regardless of origin, the owlbear's appearance is
certainly unique. Standing 8-% to 10 feet (2.5 to 3
m) tall when fully grown, the owlbear has the body of
a bear but the wings and beak of an owl. Most of its
body is covered in coarse fur, but its arm-like wings
are feathered and end in sharp talons.

Owlbear pairs mate for life, and over the course
of thirty years of adult life they may have as many
as seventy offspring. Cubs mature to nearly full size
within the first year and begin producing offspring
as soon as they find a suitable mate. Female owlbears
compete for their pick of eligible males in the area,
and males do likewise, leading to alpha couples ruling
a huge territory of up to a dozen other pairs . Woe be
to the person who stumbles upon an owlbear colony
during mating season.

Egg Care

Owlbear mothers carry their eggs internally for an
extended period of time, and are able to choose when
conditions are best for laying. Cubs hatch about

one week after the eggs are laid, which means the
window of time for stealing an owlbear egg from its
clutch is very narrow. Most owlbear cubs in captivity
are acquired after they hatch, and must be kept at
owlbear body temperature at all times. Male owlbears
typically snuggle up with the eggs until they hatch,
which gives mother owlbears time to recover from
giving birth.

General Care

Owlbears are tenacious and ferocious beasts. Even in
captivity it can be difficult to tame them, although

a cub who has been domesticated since birth may
impress upon one to two people it views as its mother
and father (regardless of the actual gender of the
couple). You must establish a parental role with an

58.

Rearing Difficult
Tricky Y
Intelligence
Clever

owlbear cub very early in its life, otherwise it will only
ever view you as its next meal.

Owlbears are ravenous carnivores who prefer to
hunt their own food. Wild owlbear cubs are taught
to hunt within the first week of their lives and
afterward are expected to feed themselves if they
wish to survive, so it's important to raise your own
cub in a similar manner. They learn to hunt best
when tracking difficult prey such as squirrels and
chipmunks, so start with those and lead up to larger
and faster meals as your cub ages.

Don't be surprised if your cub's uncouth eating
habits lead to matted fur and sticky feathers. If you
value your own hide, you won't try to give your cub a
proper bath, but most owlbears do enjoy swimming
so you can at least tempt it to rinse itself off now and
then if necessary.

Training
Owlbear cubs respond best to two things: food and
aggression. When training your cub, it's best to
remember that a good meal will keep it placated but
a firm hand is required to make it respect and obey
you. This doesn't mean you should mistreat your
cub—on the contrary, hitting an owlbear of any age
is a surefire way to wind up as its lunch—but you
should use an authoritative voice and establish strict
boundaries if you want your cub to follow your lead.

Because of their generally foul temperament, it's
difficult to raise an owlbear to do anything but hunt
or fight alongside you. With practice (and a lot of
patience), you may be able to train your pet beast
to act as a guard, but the creature's short attention
span makes this difficult. To rear a guard owlbear you
must regularly introduce prey into the area you wish
the beast to protect. Eventually, it will learn that it
doesn't need to wander away to find food, and it will
stay within the vicinity you're trying to control.

The most unexpected tactic an owlbear uses in
hunting makes use of their underpowered wings.
Though far too heavy to fly ot even glide, fit
owlbears can manage an assisted leap, which they
often use at the end of a charge to surprise an
opponent expecting to meet them front-on. The
tonne or more of bear-weight they drop on their foe
L is usually enough to kill most prey.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 63 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 64 ---

PHASE KITTEN

Phase tigers, also known as fooler beasts or lash
panthers, resemble black-furred tigers with six legs
and four sharp-ridged tentacles. Sages believe that

the original population slipped through from another
plane, and that their strange detachment from their
own visible images results from imperfect alignment
with this material dimension. Light hitting the tiger
encounters a high-energy distortion field and displaces
by 3 feet (1m).

The animals roam deep wilderness as solitary
hunters. A phase tiger stalks with its image further
from the prey than its body, making it effectively
invisible in good cover. Then it pounces close, bloodies
the prey with lashes from its spiny tentacles, and
jumps away to keep its position unknown. When it
tires of this game, or if injured, it knocks the creature
over, pins it down, rakes out its guts with four powerful
hind claws, then feasts. By age two the phase tiger is
fully mature, 700 to 800 pounds (360 kg), and a vicious
predator. It will defend its home territory, which can be
quite large, even against much larger creatures.

Mating occurs every two years, on average, and the
male has no role in protecting the female or raising
the young. Gestation takes 16 weeks, with the mother
cat decreasing her hunting range and gorging on
lesser prey such as chipmunks, nests of bird eggs, and
even grubs. In the last week she finds a cave or digs
out a den. At parturition, her phase effect intensifies.
Her image flickers and jumps, finally stabilizing
up to 30 feet (9 m) away . The image might appear
above ground, giving away her position, though most
creatures flee from the thrashing and yowling. Should
any find her hiding spot, she attacks by surprise in her
state of heightened sensitivity.

The cubs, or kittens, are born in a state of stress,
and their images appear at random from the spot of
birth. Displacement declines only slowly with maturity.
Each kitten weighs about three pounds (1.4 kg) and
they cling to the mother and nurse. They do not open
their eyes for a week, but do stagger around on their
six stubby legs, mewling and bumping into things,
while their images bonk their heads on nothing. The
mother's own image gradually stabilizes as she recovers
from birth injuries caused by the kittens' tentacle
spikes. If she dies, the kittens quickly follow her. A
litter of nursing phase kittens presents a wildly random

60.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Clever

appearance, and they nurse most of the time for two
months. Any prolonged exposure to cold, or a day
without nursing, makes the cub unlikely to survive.
Blink dogs can smell a cub's position and attempt to
catch it by teleporting, while it scampers about in
terror; such chases can go on until the kitten collapses
in exhaustion.

General Care

Starting at eight weeks of age, a phase kitten can
survive in captivity. It requires nursing from a bottle
and constant attention. Milk from most animals
does not nourish the kitten, perhaps due to its
interdimensional nature. For some reason, cat's milk
works, requiring a tiger-sized animal or a whole stable
of smaller cats. Only phase tiger milk gives the thick
black coat; otherwise, the growing kitten takes on
random fur color and pattern, reducing its market
value. Some report successfully imitating a milk sample
by careful use of food magic. Kittens thrive and learn
better when at least two grow up together, though
keeping track of them can be a challenge. By four
months their tentacles are strong, and sharp enough to
badly cut an incautious handler.
Training

At six months, after gradual introduction of meat,
training begins. The cat weighs around 150 pounds
(68 kg)”, “8 feet (2.5 m)”, and “one foot (0.3 m) closer
per month, down to 3 feet (1 m). The cat intelligently
watches trainers hunt and imitates them in play. It
eats part of each kill. Some trainers use particular
prey, including intelligent beings like goblins or human
children, to instill the growing tiger with a taste for
that meat. Over time, trainers move to maiming prey
and letting the cat finish it off. At age one year, the cat
can hunt on its own. Weighing around 400 pounds
(180kg), it easily brings down man-sized foes.

The cat recognizes only one master, and only obeys
limited commands which it then ignores when injured.

An adult phase tiger must hunt and kill live prey
every day, or it becomes irritable and listless. Several
reports claim that, after persistent abuse, a phase tiger
will sometimes just disappear, perhaps fading back to
its original plane, or into nothingness.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 65 ---

2



--- INICIO PÁGINA 66 ---

PHOENIX HATCHLING

Phoenixes are birds of elemental fire found in arid,
volcanically active regions. Symbolising the circle of
life for many cultures, these fantastic creatures are
not immortal (contrary to popular belief); rather,
they possess a unique life cycle of near-seamless
death and rebirth.

Phoenixes can live for more than half a millennium
and mate, at most, once a century; it is therefore
rare for new phoenixes to be born. After mating, the
female lays a clutch of two to three eggs at a suitable
nesting site, usually within the caldera of a volcano or
in a magma valley. The eggs require constant, intense
heat for incubation, and must be rotated frequently to
maintain an even temperature.

In its first month of life, a phoenix hatchling
is entirely dependent upon its parents for the
prodigious amounts of food required to fuel its
growth and its fiery nature. While the nest contains
unhatched eggs, only one of the adults will leave
to find food, but once all have hatched (or proved
infertile), both must leave the nest for hours at a time
to find food for the newborn hatchlings. This is the
most dangerous time in a hatchling's life, for they
are vulnerable to predation by dragons, salamanders,
and other creatures from the Elemental Plane of
Fire who also enjoy the intense heat of volcanic
regions. Survival is often a matter of how successfully
their parents have chosen the nest site, and adult
phoenixes will tend to reuse successful breeding
grounds again and again over the course of their long
lives.

Once the phoenix is fully fledged, its excellent flying
ability and growing intelligence aid its continued
survival, but should these prove insufficient, the
phoenix is now capable of a unique trick: the ability to
will its own rebirth.

When a phoenix becomes severely injured, infected
with a serious disease, or frail with old age, it will ind
a nesting site and build a ritualistic pyre on which to
immolate itself. From its own ashes it will reemerge
as a fledgling, capable of flight but unable to access
memories and knowledge from its past lives until it
has lived for at least a century.

If a phoenix's mate is reborn, it must make a choice.
Most choose a clean break, flying to new territory and
beginning a new life, but some choose to be reborn at
the same time, allowing the option of eternity in one
another's company.

62.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Superior

Egg Care

Artificially incubating a phoenix egg is difficult but
not impossible. Once removed from the nest, the egg
must immediately be placed in a suitable incubator;
it will die if it cools below the temperature of molten
iron for more than a few minutes.

The egg's temperature must then be held steady
for up to six months while the hatchling develops.
The most reliable technique is to use a magical heat
source, but others have achieved the same result by
placing the egg in the heart of a smelter that is kept in
constant operation.

General Care

Phoenix hatchlings require a hot, dry environment
with a nearby source of intense heat in which to bask,
like a fire or forge. Their appetite is voracious in their
first year, and they must be fed a steady supply of
small live prey, incense, herbs, and fruits. To prevent
them from falling ill, they must also be provided
with lava rocks, which the hatchlings scrape with
their beaks to gain vital minerals and grit to aid their
digestion.

Phoenixes do not agree with water, and a hatchling
must never be doused or immersed. They gain
sufficient moisture from their diet and do not need
to have water supplied to them. A phoenix will
contentedly bathe itself in sand or pumice and should
not need to be groomed by its keeper; if a hatchling is
listless and refuses to bathe, this is a sure sign that its
keeper is failing to intellectually stimulate the bird.

Phoenix hatchlings are very intelligent and should
never be considered as something to train. Rather,
they should be respected, guided. and encouraged
into certain behaviours much like a human child. It
is essential to develop a positive relationship with
the bird as it grows in confidence and intelligence,
respecting its space and its physical and emotional
needs. As the bird's intellect forms, with all the
curiosity of a child and the extraordinary reasoning
ability of a library sage, it is important to challenge
it mentally with lessons of history, arcane teachings
and a variety of puzzles. They really enjoy moral
dilemmas. An unstimulated phoenix can grow sullen
or even violent as it acts out its frustrations.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 67 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 68 ---

RAKSHASA KITTEN

Rakshasa are powerful sorcerers and shapeshifters
that, in their native state, appear as anthropomorphic
tigers, walking upright on two legs with feet which are
similar to but broader than tiger paws. They can move
quickly on all fours should they feel the need. Their
hands resemble tiger paws with an opposable thumb.
While a rakshasa's sharp claws and carnivore's teeth
suit them well for battle, they rarely engage in physical
combat, relying most often on their natural prowess in
the field of magic to debilitate their enemies.

Rarely found in their native form, rakshasas can
take on the appearance of other humanoids: humans,
elves, even dwarves, though few will ever admit to
this fact. In such a form, they are, to the race they
are impersonating, extremely attractive and alluring,
almost preternaturally so. This is another means
of control over the rakshasa's “prey”; instead of
consuming humans, many rakshasas prefer to win
them over as loyal servants. Some may even mate with
humans to create a clan of hybrid beings predisposed
to defend, protect, and serve them with singular
devotion. These children appear human but share the
rakshasa's arcane gifts.

Rakshasa who choose each other as mates will
remain partnered for life. The courtship of rakshasa
is as at least as complex as between two humans.
Rakshasa value innate magical abilities, power, beauty,
and intelligence, and they are extremely picky when
choosing a mate to spend the rest of their lives with.
When a mated pair of rakshasa chooses to have a
litter, they remove themselves from civilization to
spend time raising their kittens together.

Rakshasa females produce one to three kittens in a
litter. These offspring mature incredibly quickly, aging
nearly the equivalent of one human year in a mere
month. A rakshasa pair will remain in their secluded
hideaway for a full year with their litter, until the
kittens are the equivalent mentally and physically to a
12-year-old human. At this point, the kittens will have
mastered their shapeshifting abilities well enough
to infiltrate normal society, prompting the rakshasa
family to return “home.”

General Care

For the first six months of their lives, rakshasa
kittens generally nurse from their mother. Orphaned
rakshasa kittens, or those that have been separated
from their parents, can survive on human milk from

64.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Civilized

a nursemaid. However, at around the middle of their
first year, they will wean to a primarily carnivorous
diet. To bond with their infants during the first few
weeks, rakshasa parents use their tongues to groom
their newborn kittens. After this they swap to bathing
their young in warm baths like humans.

Like infant humans, rakshasas require constant
companionship when they are newborns; those that
are not held and stroked often in their first month
will find it much more difficult to interact positively
with other sentient beings and may become socially
maladjusted. Rakshasa parents will sleep curled up
with their infants for the first few months, reinforcing
their family unit. If you are raising rakshasa
kittens from a very early age, this practice is highly
recommended to encourage a good relationship with
the kitten.

Rearing

Rakshasa kittens are exceptionally bright; they are
able to learn how to read and speak within their first
two months. Their magical talent begin to manifest
around the third month (earlier for extremely
precocious kittens). At first they are barely able to
control these abilities, which make them extremely
dangerous. A kitten throwing a tantrum may set a
room on fire or cause objects to levitate violently, so be
prepared.

Rakshasa kittens, even those that are orphaned at
birth, are unlikely to regard their human caretakers as
parents. However, even a rakshasa that is predisposed
to mischief or evil deeds can possess an extreme
depth of feeling for human surrogate families. Do
not be surprised if your kitten develops feelings of
superiority over you. It is important to acknowledge
a kitten's impressive intellect and arcane ability, while
laying down boundaries and maintaining authority.
Do not be dismissive of their questions, but be firm in
your position as caretaker.

Rakshasa kittens are best distracted with knowledge.
In their first year of life, they will be excited to learn
not only how to control their innate magic but also to
intimately understand the history, religion, culture,
and language of many different regions and peoples.
The more you teach them, the more likely it is that
your relationship will remain positive. Likewise, the
more genuine care you show toward a rakshasa kitten,
the more likely it is that this care will be reciprocated.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 69 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 70 ---

RUST WEEVIL

Neither fish nor fowl, the rust monster has a
quadrupedal body similar in appearance to an
enormous beetle, with feathered, moth-like feelers on
head and tail, and a chitinous exoskeleton.

While they tend to be solitary, rust monsters
make an annual pilgrimage from their territory to a
spawning ground, where the female will be courted by
several males at a time. After she has picked her suitor,
the male rust monster will lay his sperm in a special
organ inside the female, where she can release it at
will. Once impregnated, the female will wander off to
find an ideal hatching ground. This may take several
weeks, but once the female has found her spot, she
will release the sperm and assemble her nest. To do so,
she takes several rusted items and creates a little rust
ball into which she will lay her eggs, a clutch of 12-15,
after which she leaves the weevils to their fate.
A month later the rust weevils will munch their way
out of the rust ball, spend a few hours waiting for their
chitin to dry and harden, and leave the nest to find
their own food.

Egg Care

Rust monster eggs are the size, and often the shape, of
an ogre head, and are usually red or tan in colour. They
have a smooth rubbery surface, and is usually hidden
inside the rust ball in a dark nook. If you do find a

rust monster egg and wish to take it home, you should
handle it carefully so as not to break the surface.

Keep it in a dark place, with plenty of ferrous metal
surrounding it, and within four weeks you will have a
hungry little rust weevil on your hands.

From bitter experience, 1 cannot stress enough how
ESSENTIAL it is that you keep metals you do not wish
devoured at least 50feet (15 m) away from the weevils
AT ALL TIMES (the blacksmith next door still has no
idea what happened to his anvil, but 'd rather not
repeat the mistake).

General Care

As might be apparent from the name, eust monsters
like to eat rusted and oxidized metals. While they're
not overly fussy about where the metal comes from
(swords, spades, buckles etc), they are partial to iron
and steel. Precious metals such as gold and mithril will
be consumed, but only if there is nothing else. They

66.

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated

Intelligence
Instinctual

will drink water, but very rarely and prefer to have a
small bowl sweetened with honey or fruit juice.

Again, from personal experience l advised you not to
feed your rust monster magical artifacts as the magic
can have unwelcome, and sometimes dire, side-effects
as it passes through the monster's digestive tract.

Despite their appetites rust monsters are friendly
creatures who only become agitated when they sense
metal. They are quite sensitive and can detect its
presence up to 40 feet (12 m) away. As long as you
have only wood, leather or stone items on you, you
should be fine. They can become positively affectionate
over time, and have the same level of intelligence as a
large dog.

Rust monsters seem to enjoy having their chitin
plates caressed, and in order to bond with your
creature, we advise giving it regular brushing and
polishing sessions. However, as they are solitary
creatures, be careful not to crowd it with too much
attention, but wait for it to seek your company.

Training

Rust monsters are easy to train thanks to their
relatively high intelligence and docile personalities.
Keeping them well-fed may be costly, but as long as
your monster isn't starving for metal it can be quite
easy to raise. You will need to adapt certain tools to
use only wooden or stone materials. If you plan on
putting your rust weevil on a leash you must make
sure it does not fasten by a metal clasp. If you need to
keep your pet in a cage, make sure it's made entirely of
wood or bone.

Like many pets, you can train your weevil to
do tricks by demonstrating the desired behavior and
rewarding it with treats when it performs to your
expectations. Avoid negative reinforcement with
your pet, though; mistreated rust monsters tend to
be passive aggressive. 1 once knew an orc who hit his
poor weevil, and the next morning he awoke to a nasty
draft--his pet ate all of the hinges off his doors.

They are often not traded on the black market,

as those most likely to collect esoteric items

and creatures rarely want to deal with the rust
monster's obsessive greed for metal. On the other
hand, infesting an enemy keep with the critters
makes for a good prelude to assault.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 71 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 72 ---

S

The legendary sphinx is a creature that is both
adored and feared. They can be distinguished by their
unique appearance; the body of a powerful lion, the
reaching wingspan of a great roc, and the torso and
head of a beautiful human. Their great intelligence
surpasses that of most humanoids and they are
masters of lore, magic and riddles, with which they
love to challenge others. Their intellect is only rivaled
by the precision and acuity with which they hunt. The
greatest myths of their kind revolve around heroes
asking for a sphinx's supreme wisdom to aid in their
quests but only receiving it when they can match wits
with the creature.

Mating habits are no different. Both sphinx genders
are on the lookout for another of their kind who can
match or surpass their own hunting prowess (they are
part lion after all) and mental affinity. The female puts
the male through a series of physical challenges to see
if he can keep up with her in the hunt, and the male
creates trials of intellect for the female to overcome.
Only when they meet each other's high standards do
they bond as a pair and begin breeding.

Gestation lasts for about six months, and a female
sphinx only produces a single kitten at a time. This
low birthrate, and their preference for isolated dens
in difficult terrain, makes the sphinx a rare creature to
encounter.

Birth is usually in a heavily protected location atop
rocky cliffs, surrounded by magical barriers to keep
unwanted explorers out. About nine months after
giving birth, the parents go their separate ways and
agree together which of them will take the child to
continue its education. Their supremely logical minds
render a decision swiftly, and there is rarely any
dissent between them on this topic. The absent parent
may never see their child again, unless circumstances
put the caring parent at risk or the child seeks them
out.

An inadequate or cruel upbringing can result in
quite a different story. A sphinx kitten's voracious
intellect will focus on the physical, the tricks of the
hunt and techniques of killing, and by adolescence
evolve into a deadly sociopathy. Even a kitten on
this path is truly dangerous, leveraging its adorably
innocent appearance to indulge in malevolent

playfulness.

68.

PHINX KITTEN

Rearing Difficulty
Complicated
Intelligence
Superior

General Care

For the first six months of life, a sphinx kitten is its
parents” pride and joy and as a surrogate parent you
should treat your kitten likewise. Cuddle the kitten,
and give it regular grooming with a wet towel to
replicate the tongue baths its natural parents would
give, and stimulate its mind by speaking to it in as
many languages as you can. It will prefer meat and
fresh berries, and steadfastly ignore vegetables,

but fruit makes a nice treat to reward scholarly
achievements.

By 12 months, most kittens can cast at least
a levitation spell for its own amusement. This
is also the age where its chosen parent begins
to teach them to hunt. The child's first prey is
something small, typically a rat or squirrel, and it is
important to celebrate the first such act with lots of
encouragement, as fussy or squeamish sphinxes tend
toward dependence, and some will go on to build cults
of humanoids devoted to their service rather than
do the work themselves. When reaching 2 years of
age, a sphinx kitten's wings should have sufficiently
developed to carry it forits first flight; I recommend
you get hold of some magical means of flying yourself,
to coax it into the air and join it on its first aerial
forays.

Born with the the power of intellect and the
prowess of their parents, sphinx kittens need to be
constantly challenged by their caretakers to properly
develop. They require the expertise of a skilled
huntsman and a sorcerer to teach them of the hunt
and to wield their natural arcane powers. A kitten
raised this way is a well of untapped potential, and
it takes a true polymath of a beastmaster, or a group
of dedicated experts, to give the kitten an education
equivalent to its sphinx parents. Above all, nurture
and encourage them to excel in their studies and
expose them to as many varied cultures as you can
so they do not become aloof or bored. They will
eventually, inevitably, leave to explore the world
but building a strong bond of respect and a solid
foundation of knowledge will give you a marvellous

friend for life.


--- INICIO PÁGINA 73 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 74 ---

TITAN TYKE

The Unending Horror. The Moving Blade. Death of
the Kasha'hareen, Destroyer of Civilizations. The titan
is more than just a creature of legend, it is a brutal
nightmare made flesh. It is 60 feet (18 m) and 6 tons
(5.4 tonnes) of brutality packaged in red scales and
sharp spines. Its horns and jagged blades growing
from its back are more than just adornments, they

are almost infinitely sharp blades capable of cutting
through the hardest materials.

The titan is the only creature that appears in draconic
legends serving as a creature of fear. One of their tales,
“Boagerund the Red)” tells of a great dragon that went
mining for gemstones to fill his hoard. In the deepest
roots of a mountain, he uncovered a gemstone like no
other, locked inside a geode of marble. He took the
stone to his lair where he coveted and obsessed over
its magnificence and beauty. So enthralled he became
with the gem that, to prevent its loss, he devoured
it. The stone effected a profound transformation
upon him: his body twisted and his mind turned to
constant, raging and uncontrolled destruction. During
the change his bellows shook the mountain to rubble
and cracked the earth to its molten heart.

Encounters with titan young are rare and often
become legends in themselves. An old elven story
speaks of the ruin of one of their greatest cities,
which began with a young princess discovering an
infant titan in the wild. She sang it a melody, and
the creature followed her home. She used a lullaby to
place it in a deep slumber. When the city was sacked
by invaders and the princess silenced there was no
one to continue the song, and the great beast rose and
destroyed the invaders, as well as what remained of
the elven city.

It is rumored that the titans that walk the realm are
but whelps of an even larger beast. May the gods have
pity on us and save us should their progenitor ever be
found.

Egg Care

Every century or so, the titan is known to lay eggs,
leaving them in its wake without care or concern,

as creatures instinctively stay far away from these
sites for good reason. The egg appears like a black
craggy boulder standing about 20 feet (6 m) high. It
is practically impossible to distinguish save for the

70.

cl

Extremely Difficult
Intelligence
Instinctual

instinctive unease one feels in its presence, until a few
days before hatching, when it cracks to expose the
colorful albumen.

The incubation time of the egg varies. My best
guess would put it between a few decades to a whole
century before hatching. Most scholars will say that
a discovered egg should be transported far from any
civilisation one might care for, if anyone brave enough
can be found to moveit.

General Care

If you are unlucky enough to find yourself in the
company of a young titan who has not immediately
devoured you, it would make sense to provide it an
ample supply of food and a lot of space where the
creature can roam. There is no way you're going to
keep this creature cooped up. If you have the luxury
of space, 1 would keep the tyke constrained to a vast
mountain canyon or in a controlled extradimensional
plane where you can minimise the damage. The
titan is an omnivore and can eat almost anything
for sustenance, but will seek out and chase fresh
meat before eating plants. It will gorge itself upon
staggering quantities of food before, finally, entering
a deep slumber. 1 strongly suggest you bring a cabal
of wizards to cast growth on the available herds to
extend the food source.
Training

Don't. Just don't. Every legend ever written about the
titan suggests that at best, it will stay still only to let
you walk close enough to be eaten. If a gem similar
to the fabled original could be found, perhaps there
might be a way to contain it, or at least turn it toward
someone else's demise, but such plans are the domain
of the mad and hopelessly evil.

If 'm wrong, though, please write me a letter
outlining the technique and 1 shall publish it in my
next book.

An orcish version of the Princess” Lullaby legend
suggests the girl had a voice like a harpy”. While
singing would not be my first reaction to a Titan,
perhaps there is more to this rumour.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 75 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 76 ---

TREANT SAPLING

Many cultures attribute special powers to their
native trees. That may be in part due to treants. These
long-lived sentient trees are found in the depths of
old growth forests and remote locations. Some of the
bravest and most adventurous have spawned a slow
migration across the globe.

They appear as normal trees, until you notice
their limbs moving against the wind or hear them
whispering to their woody brethren in slow creaking,
rustling voices.

When the fae blessed the ground of the first treants,
they imagined only that their creations would guard
the woods where they lived. It was a testament to
the fickleness of fairy magic that they also evolved to
procreate, developed reasoning and the capacity to
speak with mind and voice, and move across the land.

Like their mundane cousins, treants may be born
of seed, although methods vary. Willow-like treants
join limbs over the course of the spring and summer
seasons, yielding seeds which fall beneath them as
they explore their union. Other types mimic natural
trees seed production. In any event, seeds will only
develop into saplings if the correct, rare conditions
are met.

Treants resembling banyans merge into oneina
tangle of their limb- roots. This year-long endeavor
produces up to four young who split off from their
parents as saplings.

Treants have also attempted to graft part of
themselves onto trees as they have seen orchard
masters do. There's a one in 10 chance of success and
it can't be attempted more than once a year. Grafting
works best if they take twigs from their bodies to
graft onto mundane saplings. Ifit takes hold, the
treant will overwhelm the sapling within three
months and will have characteristics of its parent and
the mundane sapling.

Finally, there is magic, though the fae are not free
with their lessons or talent, so unless one simply
wants to create a treant from raw magic (or more
likely a wood golem), it's unlikely yow'Il find a first-
generation treant.

It takes 12-16 months for a treant's offspring to
develop into a sapling regardless of reproduction
method. Most varieties protect the pre-sapling state
by sheltering it within the female's body. Both parents

Vit

Re e Difficulty
asy

Intelligence
Civilized

teach it of treant life during that time, transferring
collective and individual memories at the cellular
level. At eight months, it can respond in small ways.
Birth when it comes is swift, a simple splitting of
the bark and the emergence and rooting of the new
sprout under the shelter of its parent's boughs.

General Care

Treant saplings require sunlight, water, and soil,
although exactly what kind depends upon the variety
of treant. Natural compounds can be used to augment
the soil. Experiment on mundane trees with fish
meal, vegetable peels, blood, or even mineral dust

to ensure your treant sapling has everything needed
for robust growth. Dig carrion you find from small
animals and birds into the soil around the base. They
must root for the first two months of their lives and
begin to walk at 2-8 months.

Saplings start to understand speech after 10
months. It won't be able to form words of its own
until it's reached at least a year of age. If a sapling is
not exposed to speech within the first two years of its
life, it will learn language more slowly than a human
child would.

They can be transplanted but prefer to stay within
30 miles (48 km) of their birth until they have
reached adolescence, 5-25 years of age depending on
variety. If you have befriended a sapling, you may be
able to lure it with tales of adventure. Generally not
interested in the workings of those beyond the copses
of their homelands, a person who plays up seeing new
woods or exotic treants has a much better chance of
success than one who offers coins.

Saplings may try to shape themselves into
something bipedal and narrow enough to be
somewhat disguisable. It makes it easier to travel with
people that way. Treant friends should be aware that
they become sluggish in the winter, and positively
sprightly in the spring when their sap rises.

The major limitation of treant companions is their
aversion to campfires. After a long winter of cold
camping, your woody friend may look less than
appealing, but 1 have yet to prevent one from putting
a fire out unless it's caused by natural lightning strike.

The best perk about working with treants is one
always has a storyteller handy.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 77 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 78 ---

WYVERN ELVER

The wyvern is a large, rare flying reptile which lives
in high mountainous regions. A dose of poison from
the tail stinger of an adult is strong enough to kill a
horse, and from their eyries they prey on the goats,
deer, and sheep that populate the mountainside.
Domestic flocks are easy pickings for wyverns and
are considered a dire threat to the herd, leaving
shepherds to seek out adventurers to wipe out the
nests.

A full-grown matron reaches a length of 30 feet (9
m), half of which is tail, with a wingspan that matches
their length. Their nests I can best describe as a
deep cup, practically the size of an inverted barn. Its
steep sides prevent prey or elvers from escaping. By
instinct, they construct their eyries above steep cliffs
or on sheer peaks, making it difficult for aggressors
to reach the nest by climbing. The female wrenches
up mid-sized trees for its construction and lines it
with leaf litter and fur stripped from kills. Much to
my surprise, druids of my acquaintance inform me
that this clearing of trees is part of the forest's natural
regrowth cycle. Mountaineers and hunters learn to
recognize these denuded patches to tell when they
have entered the hunting territory of a wyvern.

Wyverns mate once a year and do so mid-flight. To
produce viable eggs, the female must feast on blood
for several days in a row. When ready, her wings
flush bright red, and she takes to the air issuing a
distinctive, shrill mating cry that can be heard for
miles. Any males in the area respond by giving chase,
as the female flies higher and higher. The strongest
male catches her, often after bloody mid-air battles
with his competitors. For the act of fertilization,
the male wraps his wings tightly about the female
and the coupled reptiles plummet downward. Two
months after mating, the matron lays a clutch of five
to eight leathery, spherical eggs 1.5 feet (0.5 m) in
diameter. The eggs are incubated for six weeks prior
to hatching. Typically, one of the eggs will not hatch
and is consumed by the hatchlings.

Egg Care

The mother wyvern's frequent absences for
hunting afford opportunities to steal eggs, though
at great risk for she does not roam far. Wise
hunters do not attempt to capture elvers, as their

74.

cl
Extremely Difficult

Intelligence
Instinctual

cries of distress will bring the mother rushing to
the nest in protective rage. If you happen to get
hold of a wyvern egg, keep it out of the sun, as the
leathery eggs would die from drying out.

General Care

Wvern elvers emerge weighing a spindly 15 pounds
(7 kg), with a 3-foot (1 m) span to their infant wings.
The mother provides freshly killed prey until they are
about two weeks old, then moves to small or dying
game for the elvers to practice hunting. Even young,
the poison from a elver can cause severe pain, and
while not enough to kill a human alone, it's still not
fun to get stung, especially if there is more than one
hungry wyrmling around.

In four to five weeks, the wyvern can flutter around
the nest. A few make it over the edge, generally
plunging over cliffs to their deaths. In three months,
they can fly. Once the elver makes its first game kill,
the mother abandons the nest and the babies until the
next mating period, leaving the fledgeling wyverns to
survive on their own. Survivability for the wyrmlings
after the mother leaves is mixed, depending on the
available food sources and whether adventurers or
predators get to them.

Training
So far, wyverns appear to be quite resistant to
domestication, with attempts leading to limited and
typically disastrous results. 1 have only found one
tribe of mountain kobolds that have successfully
mastered the wyvern, though how it's done is still a
matter of speculation. l intend to make a field trip
one day and learn their techniques. Armies have been
known to put wyverns in fragile wicker cages and
aunch them into enemy ranks to cause havoc.

J
Mountain goblins love to collect elvers and cut off

their tails to extract the poison, which they mix with
hot sap and dip onto the heads of their crude javelins.
Being goblins, they expect to lose a few comrades in
the endeavor. When they can manage to capture the
young alive in leather sacks, their shamans tell them
to crop the wings, bury the wytmlings up to the neck,
and fatten them on toadstools soaked in blood. They
believe this practice increases the volume and potency
L of the venom.



--- INICIO PÁGINA 79 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 80 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 81 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 82 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 83 ---



--- INICIO PÁGINA 84 ---

E ISCOVER THE
- ADORABLE -

,
,

In a world of A and magic, E heroes vanquish terrible
monsters and earn a place in legend. But what about the
babies left behind? This book is the first exploration of a new
kind of adventure, the raising of young monsters to become
loyal companions, beloved friends or fearsome guardians.

If you are looking for something novel to spice up a fantasy
roleplaying campaign, or simply want to see a different side to
the creatures of fantasy art, the Baby Bestiary Book has all the
monstrous cuteness you could want.

Funded by over 600 aficionados of animal affection on

Kickstarter in 2014, this book joins the Baby Bestiary 2015
| Calendar in a new line of products by Metal Weave Games. The
Baby Bestiary Handbook will add some “awww” to your coffee
table ornaments and “squee” to your players” squelching through
dank dungeons.
5 se

e DY d «

E
UL

-

,
...
y

-

bo; -
y MISBN 978-1-987916-17-=
> y y
O 2013 Metal Weave Games
B,

www.BabyBestiary.com -

¿ABY BESTIARY and its logo are trademarks of Metal Weave Games in the
U.S.A. and other countries. Its logo, images, descriptions and distinctive
likenesses thereof, are trademarks of Metal Weave Games. All rights reserved. MSRP e. Ea uso

www.MetalWeaveGames.com .
